I thought they were together but maybe
I'm
wrong
yep all
righty
that does it mean oh got
it
okay all
right where was it where was that on
what line was that I mean
CD third page or
so I think they're alphabetical now AR
they oh okay so that is just computer
stuff technology
related and I mean literally it's
probably every board I
saw what is that CDW I I wonder the same
for a long time I decided I'm a
Libertarian
government where does this come
well I think they're done go back nobody
ever
told make sure it all
enjy yeah thank you yeah he did a
lot easy to clean it up yeah
yeah just got do it yeah KN to do really
helps thank
you okay I see where you
saw good evening welcome to the
Southwest Allen County School Board
Tuesday December 5th meeting if we would
all please stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance uned
States thank you and next up
communication Dr
Ginder thank you Mrs Bennett just one
thing this is a really interesting and
fun uh recognition of Mr Jason wierder
High School associate director of bands
was inducted into the International
School band Masters fraternity F beta
moo Indiana chapter on Saturday this is
quite an honor um members are nominated
and selected to this prestigious honored
by their peers so congratulations to Mr
wierer and that's all I have thank you
any uh questions or comments on a
consent
agenda all those in favor say I I any
opposed none that has passed thank
you next we have the report on Woodside
Middle
School
hello my name is GW up graph and I am a
seventh grader my name is Jasmine
Townson and I'm a seventh grader
too I am a carsh and I'm an eighth
grade um today we have brought a video
representing the Woodside Middle School
um we are very proud to show it to you
and also very proud of our school um we
would just like to give a quick thank
you to miss ruley because obviously we
couldn't do it without her and uh yeah
so
yep hi we are students representing
Woodside we are here to show you what
Woodside means to us that's right but
whats side is more than just a school
it's our home and students here respect
the school and they are Woodside strong
just in case you are wondering what that
stands for S is for safe T is for
trustworthy R is for responsible O is
for organized n is for Noble and G is
for
genuine we have multiple examples of how
our students and teachers our Woodside
strong like this or this and even this
organized cabinet
counts since us Warriors behave so well
we get electives our electives vary from
art to an amazing music program to PO
which is a class where you can explore
what you love to do we even offer a
course to take different languages these
extra classes mean so much to us because
we can express ourselves and break up
the day with fun
classes that's right Jasmine we are so
glad to have these classes here Woodside
also has six week rotations including PE
art homech skills plus fun activities
throughout the year like activity night
the upcoming school dance our first one
dance sporting events and
more woodsite also offers multiple
different clubs to participate in such
as academic bull Builders Club math
counts get up and move LEGO League
bacing club and game board
club and my personal favorite of all
sports Woodside has tons of sports like
football basketball volleyball swimming
cross country track and my favorite
soccer sports are a big part of Woodside
because students can participate in them
and hang out with friends there as well
as you can tell wiet is much more than
just a school it's a home a family and a
place to meet and spend time with
friends and do the activities you love
to do we are so grateful to have such
amazing teachers here and have such a
great school thank you everybody for
watching our
video all right so I gave them zero Z
parameters for that I just asked them if
uh Mr rep's class you guys make a video
and it was awesome it was amazing and so
I wanted to kick off with that I'm
stepen Clark I'm the principal of
Woodside Middle School it's my first
year um it's been kind of a homecoming
for a lot of ways I was a Woodside
student um I actually went through
grades K through 12 within Stones throve
where I'm standing right now this was
actually U one of my science classrooms
that I'm standing in right now so proud
to be uh a Woodside Warrior proud to be
a homestead Spartan and so it's been
really a pleasure being back at Woodside
I have some statistics up here I mean
people know woodside's the second
largest school in our district um we're
actually up in enrollment from last year
uh we have over hundreds employees so
again the second largest employer in the
district uh at Woodside it's really been
uh a pleasure getting to know everybody
we have lots of experienced teachers um
many of them were my teachers which is a
lot of fun uh for them I think cuz you
know they got to they got to know me at
my worst as a middle school boy um so
that's that's been a lot of fun um I'm
going to have my assistants come up and
just tell you a little bit more about
what woodsite has to
offer you don't I don't need hi I'm
Angie lockart new assistant principal at
Woodside and this
is this is Dominic and he's the epitome
of a 2020 baby when he gets around a lot
of
people um so what's nice is they made
the video that showcased all of the
awesome course offerings we have at
Woodside so I don't have to read the
slide to you but I am also a homestead
Spartan Alum I graduated in 2003 and I'm
really excited to be back home I've been
an administrator at Snyder The Last 5
Years and at wara before that where I
actually met Mr Clark which has led us
to this but I guess it all worked
out and so I'm just really happy to be
back home in Woodside has been amazing
we have the best students and staff and
I'm very grateful to be where I'm at and
where my oldest child will be with me
next year so I'm very excited and
grateful
Timmy thank you guys my name is Tim
balmont I am an assistant principal at
Woodside and also an athletic director
athletic director means that I live off
of popcorn uh most evenings so this week
we have three games and uh I'll be
heading back there I just announced and
so my voice is a little bit you know
cracked I'm the raw raw guy so I'm the
positive I'm
I'm I'm kind of like the crazy uncle but
more like Clark Griswald than Uncle
Eddie so um that's more me I have the
heart-to-heart conversations with the
kids in the classroom or kids in the
hallway or my own office um but uh
Woodside as we've all shown is a great
place and uh and I know some of our
other students are going to come up here
and and and uh discuss that with you as
well but in all seriousness um you know
my family is in Pittsburgh so I bring
that pittsburghese here but I've been
within the district for 18 years now 16
as a teacher and then two this year and
last year as an administrator and um I
am very grateful because although my
family's in Pittsburgh I also have a
family here and um much much appreciated
um so I just want to thank everybody for
giving us this opportunity tonight and
um I'm going to head back to the
basketball game
shortly so I wanted to introduce those
cuz they are amazing they do so much of
the work with students every day and I
really uh attribute a lot of the success
that we're having this year in our
school to those two so I want to make
sure that you guys had an opportunity to
meet them Focus for the school year has
been pretty simple it's about being
ready to learn um we really listened to
our teachers I did a listening tour when
I found out I was going to have the
privilege to be this building leader and
I met with uh the teachers the IAS Lunch
Ladies custodians and I listened um I
took that along with Dr H's thing and we
really shaped what we wanted to do with
this ready to learn initiative with some
of the things that are not all the way
groundbreaking things but just things
that really help to establish that um
bit of healthy urgency when the kids
come there they have a mission they're
going to class they know what they're
supposed to do with their Bell workor
right at the start of class and we've
had pretty good feedback from our
teachers actually really good feedback
from our teachers about how this first
semester has gone um we going to let you
hear from one of our guidance counselors
and then we're he for the important
people in here the kids
so good evening um nice to see you all
again I was just here in March doing the
same thing so I am Lindsay Martinez I'm
one of the school counselors at Woodside
I work along these two wonderful ladies
Morgan Baston on the left of me and
Janelle Zukowski who is new to Sachs
this year as a counselor she's coming
from West Noble High School um so
there's the three of us and our very
professional
selfie photograph that we chose for this
presentation um but we have had the
privilege this year to meet with almost
48% of our entire student body which is
incredible in the first three months of
school um we have this scan me um this
is new to us this year it allows
students to take their iPads and scan
that QR code and request um a one-on-one
meeting with uh one of the three of us
or all three of us depending on what the
need of the student is um we also we
take canvas messages teacher and parent
referrals um and then obviously the
walk-ins and the the everyday things
that happen in a middle school um we are
also doing small group counseling right
now with about 50 of our students we are
discussing three different topics
College and Career anxiety and
relationship um it's a great way for us
to connect with the students in a group
setting that's not lunch duty um because
that's great sometimes but um some other
things that we are doing right now we
have a student and Family Outreach just
kind of trying that initiative a little
bit more this year we had a College
funding um parent night where 35 of our
parents came to listen about how they
could work on affording College in just
four short years for some of them um we
also as you know partner with Crosswinds
counseling agency to provide our
students with free counseling services
within the school day and last but not
least and certainly there's so much more
that goes into our program as you know
but um we are in the first year of
obtaining our ramp certification um and
that just stands for recognized ASA
model program where we're working with
our administrators to create a
comprehensive School counseling program
to provide not only to our students but
also to our stakeholders and and all the
great people that help make us who we
are so thank you so
much all right kids come on up let's get
everybody up here come on up John Arthur
Isaac
Jordan come on up
guys hello my name is John bar and I'm
an eighth grader at Woodside there have
been able to grow I've been able to
wrestle in conference for my team I'm in
honors and I've been playing the trumpet
for three years also been able to build
a desk in PLP which is really fun to
do one of my favorite classes I've taken
is pure tutor which my mom actually
talked to me into but I'm actually glad
I did it because there I've been able to
accept and help the kids there and I've
also made great relationships like
Arthur a lot of skills not only apply to
them but I can also use it on my family
and my friends and I feel like I've
learned important skills that'll help me
in Homestead and even my job in the
future
hello my name is aut m 8 grade I was
student of the
month I like
stud trums notes
to um Mr
pker
and Mr
Mr
you and Mr
bont and Miss well
and Mr C A I love
Homestead
thanks Arthur thank
you hello everyone my name is Isaac
Meyer and I'm a sixth grader I wanted to
tell you about how my transition to
middle school has been when school
started I was so anxious I couldn't even
get my locker open but butai gazillion
in one I was a pro and my anxiousness
went
away my teachers here at Woodside do
their jobs very well and efficiently
they taught more in one semester than my
past teachers have in a year I like that
we have more freedom to do things than
we ever have before I started to make
new friends and found my old friends
too I'm also really enjoying play the
trom Bon and ban I'm excited to see how
Middle School unfolds in the years to
come thank you for making this year
awesome
in Sim I
play with games with
burden I am proud
to be aite
royal and studed
Lord m is
do and I help
each I work I like working to
and oh yeah
CL we tell Foles at
lunch
nice Bren at woodsite is fun every
day ten
and I go
to
my locker number
five um hello everyone um my name is
Jordan Barnes and I'm an eighth grader
my time at Woodside has been a great
experience
through my sixth seventh and now my
eighth grade year I've been learning and
growing so much whether it's drama home
home economics being a student assistant
or we the people I've always benefited
from each and every one of my classes uh
track and field at Woodside has also
been an amazing experience um the staff
and teachers are all easy to talk to
when you are facing a problem and
challenge me and the rest of the
students at Woodside to get better and
whatever you're interested in and just
to add uh I'm also very grateful
for the counselors and because every
year at what's whenever I've needed them
they've always pulled through whether it
was for me personally or to knowy about
another student they're always very
helpful and amazing to talk to so I love
the counselors yeah um yeah and the
staff always work with the students and
parents to create amazing fundraisers
and events like activity nights donut
days and um many more after school
activities for us to enjoy and because
of these Reasons I'm without a doubt
proud to be a Woodside
[Applause]
Warrior good evening my name is Yen and
I'm an eighth grader at Woodside thank
you to Mr Clark for giving me this
opportunity to share about my
experiences among my classes one of my
favorites is We the People where I've
learned and debated topics such as the
US government and a more in-depth look
on our society today with the guidance
of our teacher Mr half in the support of
the school our class has won first place
at our regional competition and we look
forward to a win at state next week I
also enjoy the class preparation for
college and careers where we explore
business education um and our future
career paths as an extension to our
classroom experience Woodside afforded
us a trip to a local job fair where we
got a closer look into how recruiting
works in the real world these classes
and the overall learning experience at
Woodside have prepared me well and give
me the confidence to meet the challenges
of high school thank
[Applause]
you um hello my name is Emma Burr and I
attend Woodside Middle School it truly
is an extraordinary learning environment
with amazing teachers that push me and
others to become the best that we can be
throughout my middle school education I
have been exposed to many different
classes extracurriculars and
opportunities such as preps C We the
People show choir and swim these
experiences have most definitely helped
prepare me for high school and future
career paths by instilling me with a
sense of responsibility and my civic
duty but also having given me the life
skills to help me become a functioning
member of society and I feel as though
my middle school experiences at Woodside
have made me more than ready for what's
to
come yeah you three come on up come on
up guys come on up here come on up here
again I gave them like no parameters I
said you guys have 60 seconds talk about
Woodside and they did awesome I mean
talk about how awesome our kids are at
Woodside I'm really proud of them really
I mean be Way Beyond tonight and you
know this is 99.9% of the kids every day
at Woodside this is what they put out
and so we're really proud of them we're
really proud of our staff and uh do you
guys have any questions for them while
they're here um I don't have any
questions I just applaud all of these
students who've come up and just been so
eloquent um and I know that they're
probably going to leave right after this
so I do want to do a shout out to two
former students Jordan and Gwen who I
had and um very proud of you so anyway
thank you anybody else questions for our
kiddos great job
[Laughter]
bye
great you did it awesome thank
you oh transportation's up next you have
to follow
that
we should clap come on
guys
yay yeah that's definitely uh that's
tough to follow after
that I appreciate you guys sticking
around as they're
leaving you guys all know me Mike Martin
uh transportation I just got a year and
a half under my belt uh it's a long year
and a half but we we did it um just here
to review Transportation kind of what's
going on uh talk about Staffing kind of
year in review what we've done some
updated rout uh routing software that
we've implemented and then buy the
numbers which is really
interesting current Staffing uh not much
improvement as what we would like uh we
still have 41 drivers five special need
four mini bus drivers eight bus AIDS and
one Super Sub 14 Subs with very limited
availability we have three drivers in
training three mechanics three office
staff and then we still have one driver
on medical leave which fingers crossed
January she'll be back
so uh our current needs we have four
open routes currently so I need seven
drivers so three of them would be Super
Subs four would go to the route three
part-time Subs with afternoon
availability I have mornings covered
afternoons is where we run into issues
and then two bus
AIDS this there's a lot of information
here just this is a I've cut out the
names but these are all the applicants
that filled out applicants
applied and started the process First
Column is they replied to us calling
them back you can see there's three Reds
they didn't even fill out the
application don't call back the next one
is d of interview one two three five of
them didn't show up for the interview uh
offered the job and if you look at that
there's 10 people that were stopped
before we even offered the job they
withdrew then as we start the paperwork
the drug test the physical the three-day
test and then the actual CDL test I had
three within a week of testing drop out
all that training all that work all that
time all that effort where you thought
for sure
I mean that's the golden ticket but they
didn't they dropped out and then of
those 39 seven did come through which is
it's an 18% and I really thought that
number was extremely low calling the
other districts they're all in the same
boat um this last week we had a training
course in here 50 drivers were in here I
only had one seven of them were at East
to and I was talking to him and he's
like if I get one out of that I'll be
happy that's just the the nature of the
Beast so not very not very happy but um
we're getting there we got some new new
systems in Play We got some banners I'm
sure you guys have seen on the buses um
I'm working with Stacy trying to get
some social media trying to get some
more positive stuff out there to get
people here because when we did do the
if you look at August when we were on
the news about every other day um we had
a lot of applicant flow but in August of
all those people only had two that
followed
through so new
buses buses ordered in 2022 all but
three have been received uh we're
supposed to receive one next week the
other two flip a coin we have no idea
and then we have seven buses ordered for
2023 which we've been told in June is
when we should receive those is that due
to part shortage like just it is okay
part shortage and
demand um three tier rout
routing um three-tier routing uh we
implemented it this year um less
students issues on the bus um as far as
incident reports those numbers are way
down um I think the shorter routes the
no more than a half hour on the bus and
they're out and home very very little
issues majority of the buses have room
for future grow growth um we've kept the
buses all to the north of Illinois about
35 to 40% full so as we grow we have the
buses majority of the students spend
less time on the bus I think we have a
handful of buses that are a little bit
longer but those are our Lafayette
routes since kind of expected when you
live half far away from school and then
congestion around H set and Summit has
decreased
dramatically um the other thing we
implemented was hourly pay from Route
pay um definitely was I was nervous
about this one how the drivers were
going to perceive it uh their questions
they just had lots of questions they had
doubts that this was going to work how
do we clock in how do we clock out all
the feedback that we received from the
three tier and the hourly has been
positive uh they're actually getting
paid for what they work they're not
waiting on trains accidents weather slow
people you know just there's no way
they're getting paid for what they work
so it's it's an honest days wage for
what they're getting paid so not have to
worry about the weather traffic what
have you new software this is something
else we implemented last year which was
on top of new pay rate three tier there
a lot of stuff going on uh but we needed
this it was rout finder plus we had the
basic route finder Pro moved to plus uh
it's cloud-based so it's much easier we
can do it from home this is the just
like a main Dash uh there's a dashboard
canvas a scheduler data grids forms
message center just a lot of different
tools tools that I've only tapped into
maybe 30 40% of it there's a lot of
stuff here um this is what a dashboard
looks like cut out the bottom obviously
with the people's names but this is what
the uh the secretaries will see they see
hey we have license is expiring medical
exams about to expire how many C current
staff people we have in the system and
then the current number of trips so
these are it's just a dashboard that she
sees when she comes in
um went backwards oh um this is our data
grid and we can do we get information
from alternate sites contractors the
districts drivers trips staff and pretty
much anything you want I can create a
report on
it this is a reminder tool so whenever
drivers licenses are about to expire
when a medical examination is about to
expire fire um we have new students
added to the school district um you even
see one on there it says parent
communication so it shows if a parents
called and talk to about a student we
put it in there and that way everybody
can see it as far as the office not
everybody um map the mapping of
it this is to me this all makes sense
this made look crazy to you guys um that
is what a typical route would look like
in yellow that is Bittersweet and the
Dell's are bittersweet that is a high
school route and the way the mapping did
this it shows you the map the way the
bus would travel the numbers are the
stop number all the little dots if you
can see them those are actually where
the students live so we're able to do
this to every bus to every school to
every every home every student so this
is what the what looks like this is what
it looks like up close if you zoomed in
it actually shows you where the bus is
going where they stopping you can see
the homes of where the people are at so
it's very detailed
information and this is Whispering
Meadows that's would be all the buses
that would go to Whispering Meadows the
routes that they have the routes they
travel so as you can kind of see they're
all kind of grouped together so we're
not criss-crossing each other throughout
the
day this is Woodside as you can tell
bigger School more buses um but that is
you can see right there in the middle
that is Sycamore and Chestnut it's
uh probably the least amount of students
on the bus but the most stops because
they're driveway stops versus stopping
at a corner and picking up 10 kids
you're going to a driveway picking up
one person can you explain why because I
thought found this interesting tell me
tell us why well the reason why yeah why
we do driveway stops um is there's no
sidewalk right there's no sidewalk yeah
no sidewalk so if there's a neighborhood
where there's no sidewalks we have to go
driveway to driveway so they have
sidewalks we'll try to go to the corner
just speed the process up but that route
right there which you know when you're
picking up 35 kids it's an hour long
route we've tried to shorten that down
but it's like we're just you're only
picking up 30 kids and you're on for an
hour and it's not like rout in Lafia
Township you're right here in town
so and then the infamous
Lafayette um this is out by GM right
there in the middle and you can see the
two buses the yellow and the orange but
those are hourong
routes and you're only picking up 30
kids so those are our two longest routes
that we have it's just unfortunately you
got to cover a lot of a lot of miles
just to pick up a handful of kids those
are high school routes this
is this is a high school route
yes and then middle school and
Elementary would look just the
same so that is our all the high school
routes that it's in our
district so I mean you can see
congestion up on top
and then down towards
offat so by the
Numbers we've driven in one year 725,000
miles we've used 75,000 gallons of
diesel 48,000 hours
driven over 23,000 gallons of
propane 14,000 gallons of
UNL and we transport over 10,000
students which is 5 400 students sack
students ride the bus every
day we have 4,800 bus
stops 377 routes 76
buses three mechanics that is Nate Dave
and
Mark then we have the three office staff
which is Barb Jen and Cherry I'm sure
you guys have probably heard the names
whether you see their faces or not
that's who they are um Barb is she keeps
us together it's Barb wasn't there it's
You Can Tell She's she keep she knows
the routes she knows the
students uh she can tell you their their
parents' names I mean it's amazing the
UN knowledge that she has but all the
ladies do awesome work they make my job
easier for sure and then we have one
Transportation team so there we
are that's
it you
guys any questions or
one yeah one word to fill out good
report good report I appreciate it um if
you if you could wave a magic wand that
would get more drivers in you know it's
a magic wand it can do anything it wants
what would bring in people you know the
first thing that comes to mind is like
you got to pay more but we see districts
that are paying more than us and they're
still in the same boat um it's just the
job and the hours um when you're working
three hours between 600 and 9ine and
you're put in another two and a half
three hours between two and 4:30 you
really can't do anything else you know
if we had a another school from 9 to two
that would be perfect um uh but that's
that's the problem it's just it's just
that part-time work because they most
drivers are averaging between 25 and 30
hours a week know there's drivers that
push the 40 envelope that are doing
trips and doing these you know crazy
runs every night but um but for the
average driver it's 25 to 30 hours
and you just can't can't offer it but
there was a district in Georgia uh they
have 2100 buses uh they're still short
200
drivers and they're paying
19 Mike is there any evidence that the
change away from agrarian society and
Farmers because so many of the drivers
when we were kids were farmers and now
now there aren't so many is that
impacting your well I wasn't around when
there was a lot of farmer drivers um but
I definitely remember all my
drivers the John Deere hat um it seems
like more now is the hey I've retired
from my job and now I have the next five
to seven years that I need to supp um
home um a lot of those applicants that
we saw that through right away they had
their
CD
have so that is of you're drivers are on
the
road
don't that's one Avenue and that's I
don't want to speak too early but state
of Indiana is trying to
allow us toest our
own our
drivers to certified by the state
whatever but that would
be you mentioned that you have the
mornings covered afternoons a TR problem
um I assume some people just can't work
in the afternoon I think people like to
play golf
so is that something you offer or are
they calling in sick when they want to
go off or what no well like they'll say
uh we call all our
subs on the weekend or Friday are you
available next
week you have like can you offer a
afternoon full-time driver position or I
guess I said the drivers that we have
you it's usually those subs are usually
the older bus drivers they're you know
in
their old but they're in their 60s um
careful yeah I know that's right I had
to look at the room real quick um so so
they they really don't want to deal with
you know loud screaming kids they'd
rather have you know a nice special
needs route or a route that's just a
simple route they don't want to be
tested too
much well I had to congratulate you I
think after listening for the last year
everything that you have been able to
accomplish I think is awesome because I
don't know anybody that just seems like
a job that
was really tox it has its moments but
when I look back and
like be on vacation I'd love to get back
to being able to pick up those kids I
know it's not in the near future but
make that that's
those
neighborhood yeah one of the one of the
parents who lives over just on the other
side of the why I think their kid goes
here they said you can't drop between
here and there you have to drive all the
way
around Elementary we have buses okay
middle school high
school the
element
thank
you next we have the discussion of the
recommendation of revision to board
policy
590 I'll review those recommendations of
media and instructional materials thank
you Mrs Bennett this is uh the latest
and last of the updates to this
particular policy we updated this some
weeks ago and this particular piece of
update really goes into effect on
January 1st what I do would do is ask
that you look at number six on the
front actually if you start at the uh
first LA and white paragraph that has
red interrupting it um you'll note that
it says uh or an addition of any
Community member within the Sachs
boundaries and then if you look at
number six we wish to adjust
the committee that would be appointed by
the building principal to include U
teachers and media professional but to
strike out U the use of parents and the
reasoning there is that the um Public
Access counselor has said that if you
include parents then this group would
have to be open to public um comment and
what we've done historically because
when the new law goes into effect
previously we've been redacting parent
names we won't be able to do that
anymore and the desire is not to put
parents in a position where um others in
the community would know who they were
so upon review I would ask that the
board consider making that say uh and an
additional classroom teacher that lives
in the district to kind of split the
difference
most of the rest of the
uh document if you go to the second page
is unchanged or slightly changed due to
a typo um and then if you look at the
last paragraph the superintendent's
determination may be appealed to the
board and so the Review Committee will
provide a written recommendation to the
superintendent for final final
determination however that particular
wording is a little bit um confusing
because the board will still have the
opportunity to reveal an appeal not
reveal a review of an
appeal if there are any questions I'll
be happy to ask answer
them I've got a question you I think
under number six you said in a classroom
teacher that lives within the district
yes that would that one of the two what
I'd like to do is add yes it would be uh
Rewritten so that it' be a classroom
teacher one of which would be in the in
the district so that kind of takes a
place of parent correct
yes thank you next we have the
discussion of the recommendation of
professional development plan for Sac
secondary
schools thank you Mrs Bennett good
evening I'd like to present uh to you
all tonight as a discussion the
recommendation of a professional
development plan for the Sach secondary
schools this professional development
plan is supported by our secondary
principles Mr persley Mr Clark and Mrs
Summers and as I've talked with teachers
and um listen to teacher leaders there's
uh bit of a growing urgency to address
the new 2023 future focused Indiana
academic standards uh while also
promoting incre inreased vertical
alignment and Middle School and High
School uh collaboration uh for the
betterment of teachers and students so
this plan aims to accomplish just that
and also build expertise of all teachers
at the secondary level for the new
standards and the new uh State
assessments for accountability because
there's been some
changes
um I guess simply put I I just put
forward this purpose here um the purpose
of this plan is to ensure that each Sach
secondary teacher can confidently answer
the question how do you know you've
taught two and above the standards we
talk about teaching two and above the
standards here in Sachs with clear and
data driven
evidence guess I'll just start by uh
providing some history and context for
the changes in the new academic
standards in the new state assessment
model um back in 2022
house enrolled act
1251 called the idoe to identify SK uh
key skills and traits necessary for
students to be successful After High
School graduation you see the bullet
points all that went into that
comprehensive research
effort and as a result the idoe
identified and established these eight
uh key skills and traits to be used to
drive um subsequent efforts and
decision- making um you might notice
that
all of these key skills and traits are
either labeled as employability skills
standards or Indiana academic standards
you might also notice that these key
skills and traits are very similar to
sax uh portrait of a
graduate John yes um well this I just
could be because I'm old yeah but I
can't um I couldn't read these earlier
when I was reading them at home sure and
I can't really read them
okay I guess I I yeah can you do large
print for old
people I can uh I can make that
accommodation moving forward Mrs moer
read that is awfully small isn't
it at any rate as a component of this
recent legislation the idoe was required
to both streamline and prioritize the
Indiana academic standards for grades K
through 12 and streamlining uh required
a reduction in standards by
25% and prioritizing required
identifying 33% of the standards as
essential and and this has not been done
before and these standards are now
called the 2023 uh future focused
Indiana academic
standards and um you know of course
standards are designed to help Educators
parents students and community members
understand what students need to know
and be able to do at each grade level
and within each content strand in order
to be um prepared for lifelong success
and of course the idoe also emphasizes
that uh the standards their standards
are not an exhaustive list and how each
standard is taught um aka the curriculum
that's delivered it in schools is
determined at the local level and so I I
would say that what we generally see is
that the highest performing school
districts period ically engage in a
process like this it's um sometimes
called curriculum mapping which
ultimately establishes Clarity and
Alignment both horizontally and
vertically uh within a school system so
um through curriculum mapping the the
what is being taught and when is being
taught is generally aligned in each
course however the how or the art of
teaching is still up to the individual
teacher and we find sometimes that
teachers feel they will lose their
ability to choose how to teach when
curriculum mapping and i' just like to
emphasize this is not the aim through
this process our aim would be would be
that each teacher can confidently answer
the question how do you know you've
taught two and above the standards with
clear data driven evidence in essence we
want our teachers to provide our
students the support and training to be
experts on these new standards um to
promote student
achievement so moving forward also
recent legislation corresponding to the
original legislation calls for a
realignment of the iearn assessment
reflecting the new streamlined and
prioritized standards as you know I
learn is the required State assessment
for school accountability in grades 3
through eight the new I learn summ of
assessment will be administered
beginning the 2526 school
year and so here's a slide that's um
kind of a broad overview of the new I
learn assessment the biggest difference
between the old I learn and the new I
learn um in addition to kind of some
depth of knowledge um is that uh there
are three interim assessments that would
be administered flexibly in each School
District during a window of time
teachers and families would receive
results and feedback in a timely manner
in order for reteaching to take place
during the school year the summit of
assessment at the end of the school year
would be similar to the old I learn but
is supposed to be shorter than it used
to be and here's a little closer look
at the development of the new I learn
assessment system um highlighting
flexible scheduling at the local level a
call for local scope and sequence plans
in Curriculum maps at the top there you
can see that an assessment being based
on blueprints blueprints are available
to teachers and provide details about
what will be on each checkpoint and
when making it critical for us to
determine when we will teach each
standard and to what depth so that our
students are most successful
and as I suggested the new future Focus
standards impact grades K through 12
while the iearn is administered in
grades 3 through eight only it's also
important for us to recognize that the
required State assessment for
accountability at the high school level
is the new digital
sat and that's administered to all
students in grade 11 um in the month of
March the SAT replaced the ice step so
handful of years
back and on this slide here you can see
that the idoe has prioritized the new
Indiana future Focus standards in the
areas of math reading and writing for
this digital
sat so it's very important for our
teachers to have support in knowing and
establishing some collective expertise
both horizontally in common courses and
vertically as students matriculate
through grade
levels so here I just have a slide that
um kind of gives us some things that I
would suggest are necessary that we that
we do that we undertake given the new
standards however I also believe that
this is an opportunity for us to really
support our teachers in achieving
Clarity by confidently asking that
question that I proposed earlier how do
you know you've taught to and above the
standards
um and part of this plan I am um
presenting that we establish a new cycle
to sustain this work long term and build
is continue to build what is called
Collective efficacy and I'm just going
to touch on this
briefly um this concept of collective
teacher efficacy just to show that this
plan has some connections and it's
grounded in research as you may know
John Hattie is a picture of him there is
among the most prominent educational
researchers today book visible learning
and its sequel among the most popular
cited and initiatives due to the
technique he calls this metaanalysis
where he brings a bunch of research
together um in his book visible learning
he ranked 138 influences that are
related to learning outcomes from very
positive effects to very even negative
effects and he found that the average
effect size of all interventions he
studied was about 0
4 and I guess the key message here is
that um there are things that seem to
work better than others in improving
student learning outcomes there are
things that are actually
very useful and some other things that
are not all that useful so I've got a
just a short video here he can describe
some of
that the new number one invisible
learning is Teachers Collective efficacy
and on the one hand that's exciting
because it confirms the story on the
other hand it's a a bit of an
unfortunate title um it kind of implies
that having efficacy having confidence
having all the teachers in the school
believing they can make a difference
it's actually more than that now to have
a metal analysis you have to have lots
of studies this is not a new idea this
has been around a long time but it's
just that Rachel Al was the one that
pulled it all together to show what its
combined effect was and the message I
want to get across it is Teachers
working together to have appropriately
High challenging expectations of what a
Year's growth for a Year's input looks
like fed with the evidence of impact and
that's what sustains it it isn't just
growth mindset it's not just Rah
thinking it's not just all we can make a
difference but it's that combined belief
that it's us that causes learning it's
not the students it's not the students
from particular social backgrounds it's
not all the barriers out there because
when you fundamentally believe you can
make the difference and then you feed it
with the evidence you are that is
dramatically
powerful here's a graphic that
illustrates Hat's research and uh you
can see the number one influence on
student learning outcomes is collective
teacher efficacy which means teachers
working together to have appropriately
High challenging expectations of what a
Year's growth for a Year's input looks
like and I like that he also points to
fed by evidence so in other words he's
pointing to um using data to to propel
student learning
forward and so um another slide here
again the purpose of this propos
proposal and um looking to boost
Collective teacher efficacy amongst
secondary um School teachers and just
kind of get into what this plan would
look
like um this graphic represents a new
cycle that would uh really be
facilitated from my new office um it's
been said that an organization does not
rise to the level of its goals rather it
fail falls to the level of its systems
uh this cycle would make the process of
supporting our
teachers um yeah it's a great
book this cycle would make the process
of supporting teachers deep knowledge
and Clarity and understanding the new
standards and the new I learn and sat
more um
systematic so here's um breaking the
staff development plan into a couple of
phases specifically we'd launch the plan
or the cycle in January with math and
English language arts teachers the cycle
would include two phases
phase one is a map focus and phase two
is a capacity building Focus over the
course of three years uh professional
development will be provided to all sax
Secondary School teachers and varying
degrees to establish Clarity again as to
how Sach teachers imp interpret the new
standards in order to teach to and above
the standards uh the work in phase one
would require some release time for a
limited number of teachers serving on a
mapping core
team and here we see faas phase uh two
phase two would begin in August with
math and English language arts teachers
simultaneously science and social
studies teachers would begin phase one
phase two would include all math and
English language arts teachers and
provide professional development related
to academic intensity and uh vertical
alignment and you've heard me um say the
word Clarity a few different times in
this presentation to describe this cycle
or this plan this word is at the core of
the outcomes we'd hope to
achieve we've got some things just
listed there uh I would hope to uh
achieve Clarity with our new standards
clarity through our new um this new
assessment model which is with the
interim assessments Clarity with respect
to academic alignment secondary schools
in Sachs um teaching two and above the
standards and um that last point I would
also suggest that going through a
process like this leads to um a greater
degree of clarity in terms of what what
uh our teachers would be able to
identify as the optimal curricular
resources um that would meet the needs
of students here in our
district so have we done this work at
the secondary level in the past I would
say yes and no uh to varying degrees um
and there's a number of different
reasons for that um the standards have
changed over the years but there been a
significant shift in the standards here
in 2023 especially when you consider
them in light of the new assessment
model
and I guess what do need to to launch
and sustain this work well I come to you
tonight with this uh discussion uh for
this recommendation certainly engagement
from teachers and leaders in our
district and I would also suggest that
um a need to launch and sustain this
work would be a uh some additional
expertise and a collaborative partner
meaning someone who has been successful
at supporting districts accomplished
this
work I point to Dr Michelle guu is with
us this morning or this evening
rather this pres presentation may be
long but it's not quite morning uh
Michelle's with us this evening I first
met Michelle uh in the fall of
2022 when she was leading a um I learn
series a series centered around iser and
I was just so impressed at the level of
uh kind of depth in her knowledge around
the state assessment and her ability to
kind of translate that into layman's
terms so that someone like me could
better wrap my mind around it uh I was
looking to build my own capacity so I I
um I joined this series I also ran into
Michelle at the 2023 uh School boards
Association conference we were there
together a few months ago uh and then I
attended another session or two in a
future focused learning series here in
in the last last month um as you can see
Michelle's worked in Sim similar
districts uh professional development um
efforts like this she's worked with
Regional Education Service Centers uh
idoe on I learn test design sat
preparedness um and I checked a bunch of
her references called around
superintendent and she's super highly
regarded in fact um one superintendent
told me that her teachers describ
Michelle as and her work as the best
professional development um that they'd
ever
had so next slide it's just kind of a
list of some costs that would be
associated with this work at the
secondary level there would be some
costs related to uh release time for
teachers the Middle School and High
School uh some costs related to securing
uh partnership with Michelle and her
organization called connect the dots um
there's a total down there at the bottom
right um I would um again I would point
to that this is uh is within within the
existing uh PD budget that we have
allocated for the next couple of
years just a list of some deliverables
uh that we could expect uh if we
partnered with Michelle and connect the
dots in uh moving forward with the staff
development
plan and I won't read all of that but
I'll make sure that I can send you all
the slide deck so that it's a little bit
easier to read than the printed make
sure it's in big print yes I will do
that LGE I'm happy to answer any
questions that you may
have um right here I think your
presentation is outstanding I do have a
couple questions um the
checkpoints um that they would
administer at different times does that
replace NBA then well that's a great
question um we've talked about potential
of replacing some but not not all
because there are some things in K12
that wouldn't be covered so it's
possibility that we would keep NWA at
K12 but then replace with this
yeah oh okay so when we were looking at
a part I couldn't read very well
um I was wondering where um Dr St John
where textbooks and high quality
curriculum material in the city of
Indiana were going to uh fall in since
they're pushing it Dr Jenner is so I was
curious
about yeah thought yeah I would suggest
that going through a process like this
and also looking at curricular materials
uh that meets the needs of our teachers
and uh our students are are
complimentary um that doing one without
the other is um
not going to likely yield us the kind of
results that we're looking for um I I I
think a process like this is a is a real
investment in building the capacity of
our teachers to really understand what
um the depth is and make Collective
decisions um here in Southwest Allen as
to what kind of scope and sequence we
want to work through what kind of
targets we want to try to hit and what
kinds of um things we might want to
teach our kids that are above the
standard so going through a process like
this I think better equips our teachers
to make informed decisions about the U
best curricular
materials for us in other words teachers
will have a big say in this yes
collaboration part absolutely I think I
think that's an important I think that's
a huge input yeah so um all right let me
see I think I had a couple
other oh
um I had uh this where it said the zone
of desired effects um that dror is that
what his name is
yeah that is
outstanding it talks about direct
instruction collect I mean I I agree
with so much of that and then when it
talks about the reverse effects that is
something we've been working on and
talking about as a board because those
have negative impact so kind of goes
along we're trying to to change I it's
awesome yeah the hatti research is super
powerful um and I think it's
um well I I'll just I think it does
resonate with folks
yeah um and then you're not suggesting
cancelling summer vacation are you no
stop um and I did watch a video of Dr
Gru is that correct am I saying
correctly yeah you're exactly what he
said you're easy to listen to and
understand and I thought it was
great yeah just plug in your name and
connect and then hit video and I found
one it was 18 minutes long I do believe
um and then let me see if there was
anything else um oh I know what I was
going to ask you when you're talking
about the academic standards that they
are you know reducing um I know
personally as a teacher it was always so
confusing because they would change the
standards so what I wound up doing was
printing off every year the different
social studies blah blah and and then I
would check them off as I taught them is
there going to be anything like that so
at the beginning of each year every
teacher
has has it so they can and check them
off or oh boy yes I I
would um probably not tonight you know
what I'm I mean understand kind of what
I'm saying so the people actually really
have what's they're supposed to be doing
yeah what's one of the deliverables on
the deliverable slide I think the the
top bullet talked about um very usable
Curriculum maps that have the standards
broken down in terms of depth of
knowledge and to different kinds of
resources um and so it'd be super
powerful for any teacher especially a
new teacher to have access to something
like this not only for their grade level
but just by a click uh of a different
sheet at the bottom of a spreadsheet
where you can see what's happening uh in
the grade level prior and what's
happening in the next grade level um so
you really are going to develop yeah
and I think one of the pieces of this
that I'm most excited about at the
secondary level is how this could impact
fact um our vertical articulation
efforts because that's a great part of
this isn't it vertical articulation
other thing that I thought was
outstanding was that finally we're going
to look at um you're going to support
looking at fifth going to sixth and eth
going to ninth because there's been like
a brick wall and that would be so
helpful um to have have you doing yeah
we're we're working on that that'll be
big piece of
this I
think my question would be um I I think
this sounds great and I I just want us
to be sure that it's going to work and
so my suggestion would be if we see
phase one not working I'd be shocked but
I think we want the opportunity to say
we're not going to do phase two so it's
also more incentive for phase one to
work with so that would just a
suggest I like most of what you've got
here um it's not my wheelhouse you know
it's your wheelhouse um the one thing
that uh is highly disappointing to me um
and Dr gner knows I speak my mind um is
to change the way we do nwba testing um
I will consider a failure of this
Administration if we stop testing all
the way through 8th grade it's the it's
the
one um constant that we've had over the
past years to be able to evaluate our
performance and to drop that would be um
would take away the eyes of the school
board on on much of what's going on my
opinion we will lose uh the formative
assessment that has paid for that going
away it could be consider expense but
are there assessments with this program
for
the or I don't know
yeah oh okay that's the piece is
missing I see I see how much is that
Grant we get that would be going
away
assessments so there may some level of
financial support
can you give us a rough idea so we know
what we'd have to find to replace it
just what's the highest it's ever been
what's the lowest or the average yeah so
our assessment
gr
[Music]
8,000 that helps thank you and that's
thank
you if it comes to it I'll uh eventually
make a motion that we take money out of
our rating day fund to pay for the NWA I
think it is
important not making it
now and I do think it would be important
to
Dr simers have you seen one of the
checkpoints yet or seen and are they're
not available at all so you don't even
know
blss us
inform
any other comments or
questions thank you thank you all your
work now we have the recommendation of
the approval of classified staff wage
increases for 2024 and Administrator
salary
ranges thank you Miss Bennett look at me
I'm like you did so much
work I'm ready to say yes go ahead good
I'll make this really quick go so put so
much time in eff no changes from the
last time and Mr Snyder and I are
recommending that 4% increase for all
classified staff and
administrators do I have a motion
second
again discussion
questions no I
think
extraordin all those in favor say I I
any opposed none that has passed thank
you and then last the recommendation of
the acceptance of donations thank
you thank you this should make Mr Gilpin
like entire year there's three donations
this evening um we'll start with the
rocketry club Mr Len festy is our
physics teacher and Club sponsor
students um sought some donations Lily
rasset um I believe wrote uh some area
businesses uh and info Rhythm um stepped
up and is donating
$830 for the rocketry club
um it's Mr yah I I hope I did not just
butcher his name so it's a local
business that is donating that
$830 we also have a and I think this is
annual or pretty close to annual MidWest
America uh is donating
$1,130 64 to the Environmental Center
Mrs merkling will put those funds to
good use I'm certain and last but not
least uh Lafayette Meadow
um from Jenny Fidel has received an AWS
grant for adaptive playground equipment
in the um for
$25,000 so we're grateful and thankful
for AWS once again stepping up and
helping our
students do I have a
motion
second any
questions all those in favor say I I I
any opposed none that has
passed and so next up we've got some
public comment Christa
Kramer oh I think is this on yes it is
okay yes so you can be
heard thank
you hello everyone my name is Christa
Kramer and I have a freshman and
sophomore at Homestead High School I am
here today to say thank you for
supporting student athletes here at
Homestead I came from a smaller high
school that didn't offer as many sports
as we take for granted here thank you to
Rob Irwin and Chris toy it is a blessing
that we have an Administration that
supports all sports thank you also for
our coaches especially our swim coach
Chris kblo we are lucky to have an
experienced talented hardworking
respectful and caring coach for our kids
I'm speaking as a parent but also as a
former swimmer of coach canao at Avalon
Swim Club as well my oldest daughter
came to me at the end of the summer and
expressed some lofty swim goals she set
for herself this High School swim season
her dad and I encouraged her to meet
with her coach and share her goals coach
Chris was very accommodating with her
meeting a request we sat down he took
notes of her goals told her it won't be
easy but if she wanted he would help her
leading up to the season uh start she
went on her own to the YMCA to practice
on her own as well as wake up at 5:00
a.m. to swim at uh Summit Middle Schools
open lanes on Tuesdays and
Thursdays um I think I got those dates
right um what a great lesson she is
learning at the age of 16 to be able to
talk to coaches adults
professionally um advocating for herself
and put in the work to accomplish the
goals that she sets we are lucky to have
such an attentive coach that is willing
to set aside time to meet with her and
understand her goals my freshman
daughter was recently asked by another
coach not affiliated with the school
about how swim is going this season that
coach shared with me today that she is
that she said she is really loving the
swim season there's no drama she loves
her coach and is performing well it
seems like every sport there comes a
time when uh you know there might be
some complaints um about how coaches
coach or refs call plays Etc um that can
turn off uh good experienced people from
stepping up and filling these roles for
our kids if we don't have coaches we
don't have programs which mean which
means kids don't get to share their
talent I simply ask today to continue
our support for coaches admin um who
work to ensure our student athletes can
continue to share their time and talent
and represent Homestead High School
Spartan pride is real if you get a
chance check out this team of almost 40
student athletes you will see Smiles
hard work and good good sports manip
thank you for your time you guys thank
you and Tiffany Hine Hayne hi
Hy good evening thank you for the
opportunity to speak I am here to do to
speak to you um about something that
probably doesn't always happen during
this time um I'm here to like Mrs Kramer
um talk to you about something positive
I too have um two swimmers and I have a
senior and I have a sophomore who have
participated on multiple Sports and
clubs during our time here at Southwest
Allen County Schools The Experience um
again like i' said is swim that I want
to talk about my girls have been
swimmers for nine years competitively I
did have to go back and look at some
pictures CU I couldn't believe it had
been that long but it has and um during
that time we've had multiple coaches and
swam for um some different teams both
club and school and I just wanted to
make take a moment to say that they've
always loved School swim it's just been
such a fun experience both in middle
school and now in high school but
they've come home this year and have
just shared some en new energy and
excitement that we have seen and I've
even noticed I think most importantly at
those 4:30 wakeups before those morning
practices that rather than getting the
normal Grumble of yeah okay I guess I'll
go it's now okay and they just get up
and they go to practice um I've even had
to or been able to not get my daughter
up she's just gotten up which for a 15y
15-year-old is great and so I just
wanted to take a moment and say that we
were talking at dinner one night and I
said how's how's everything going just
doing our normal check-in and she said
mom I've never seen kids work so hard to
learn something new and they're so nice
and I just brushed it off but after
watching the team at the last couple of
meets I'm seeing a dynamic that I've not
been able to observe at Homestead uh
swim and that to me is huge the student
athletes are representing Homestead in
Southwest Allen County schools with an
integrity that's unparalleled so that's
due to a culture and um support that you
have started for both um the coaching
staff and the administration of
Homestead High School and all of our
Southwest Allen County Schools so you
and the board have done an amazing job
of recruiting talented administrators
who hire coaches and um put that student
athlete development both academic and
athletic at the Forefront of your their
decision making which what is what makes
Southwest Allen County Schools a
destination for so many so thank you for
your committed to support for those who
work tirelessly to prepare today's
learners for tomorrow's opportunities so
thank you
thank you very
much and with that that is the end of
our meeting thank you all we are
adjourned Mrs is Bennett um oh no we're
not no no no you're good 89,000 to
confirm uh Mrs simmers I was thinking it
was a little higher but she her memory
is a lot better than mine
9,908 um so I usually