welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info according to a new report
scientists are now on the verge of
deciphering the mystery of dark matter
researchers working with the data from
the Planck satellite have detected an
intense form of radiation called
synchrotron radiation from the center of
the Milky Way galaxy scientists at the
Niels Bohr Institute have interpreted
these radiation emissions as evidence of
dark matter
professor pavel new Celski says of the
discovery we know from theoretical
predictions that the concentration of
dark matter particles around the center
of galaxies is very high and we have a
strong argument they can collide there
and in the collision electrons and
positrons are formed these electrons and
positrons start to rotate around the
magnetic field at the center of the
galaxy and in doing so produced this
very unusual synchrotron radiation but
is this really a plausible explanation
for synchrotron radiation in space
astrophysicists are fun from observation
that various results that they that they
come up with demand that would be more
matter in galaxies
for example than they actually observe
and so they postulate Dark Matter to
allow their results to all be explained
by gravitation alone in a sense you
could say that before it was observed
Uranus was dark matter because its
position was postulated purely by
gravitational theory and then they find
it so before it was find it was in a
sense dark matter but that they're
taking this to ridiculous extremes now
but it's the same sort of argument that
they're using here we've got some
results we need more actual matter to
explain them so it it must be there it's
just that we can't see it you can't see
dark matter dark matter is invisible and
it's invented to save theory so wherever
they see something that doesn't fit the
theory they can always put some dark
matter there and then they'll make the
theory fit what they see so dark matter
is kind of a blank check that they can
write for it
whenever the theory fails they can write
a check for dark matter and then they'll
say oh this this proves that there is
there's a circularity to it that we
prove the existence of dark matter
because we assumed it was where it'd be
emissions of synchrotron radiation have
long posed an unsolved mystery for
mainstream astrophysicists the mystery
resides in the spectacular acceleration
of charged particles beyond anything
astronomers had anticipated in space
synchrotron radiation is basically
radiation that's given off by charged
particles that are spiraling in a
magnetic field and technically it refers
to x-rays from products that are moving
near the speed of light but if you have
particles that are moving much less than
the speed of light they still give off
radiation it's just a de loarre energy
level so it's radio instead of
sree the problem astrophysicists have is
that they have this to do against
electricity and space and so in order to
get the charged particles to spiral in
the magnetic fields they have to do it
with some mechanical means which is
usually collisions so they
metaphorically they bang rocks together
to get electricity if if it were up to
them I guess they would light
streetlights with by falling rocks
astrophysicists mostly just ignore the
synchrotron radiation once in a while
they'll admit it like this time when oh
there's synchrotron radiation at the
core of the Milky Way wonder how many
rocks reacted banging together the
discovery of synchrotron radiation
fulfilled the prediction of plasma
physicist Hannes Alfven as early as 1950
Alphen claimed that electric currents
moving inward along the arms of the
Milky Way would generate stupendous
electric discharge and synchrotron
radiation would be its defining
signature alvin's
first insight back and I guess in the
20s was that plasma responds to magnetic
fields and he had this idea that if you
have a perfect conductor the magnetic
field will become frozen into it and so
astronomers assumed that any plasma in
space will be a perfect conductor and
the magnetic field is frozen in and any
charge separation will be immediately
canceled when the charges come back
together so you can't have sustained
electric fields in space well al faying
repudiated that is further experiments
showed that plasma isn't a perfect
conductor and it has a small resistance
and it does sustain electric fields the
experiments since then and in space have
shown that plasma is extensively
electrically active if especially if you
have two clouds of plasma moving
relative to each other they will induce
electric fields and the electric
currents in each other so then you get
all the
Effects of electrified plasma berkland
currents and filament ation magnetic
fields double layers and especially
acceleration of charged particles and
synchrotron radiation the
electromagnetic effects hip knee
universe have got to be brought to the
forefront in the researches of all
astrophysicists they've got to be
alongside gravitation if you like
they've got to realized that yes
gravitation that counts for a lot and
tells us a lot but what about these
electromagnetic forces these ideas have
been around we've got the work of
berkland followed up by our plane and
then again in more modern times by
Antony perhaps where they've got all
this theory they've got all these
experiments to back it up not
mathematical theory just they've got
experience to back it up this stuff has
to come through
I'm not saying gravitation doesn't have
a role to play but they're not going to
explain things if they don't bring in
the electromagnetic force for continuous
updates on space news from the electric
universe stay tuned to Thunderbolts dot
info
