the comet 67p churyumov-gerasimenko
perhaps the strangest solar system
object ever observed up close in the
course of the Space Age it was the
target of the Rosetta probe whose
ten-year journey began in march two
thousand four under the sponsorship of
the european space agency the probe is
now orbiting the nucleus of 67p and
investigators hoped to confirm the
Comets link to the very origins of our
solar system it has long been claimed
that comet secreted from a primordial
disk of ice and dust out of which the
Sun and planets evolved billions of
years ago 67p is a short-period comet
which means a comet taking less than 20
years to complete an orbit of the Sun
the orbit is apparently changed recently
due to interactions with Jupiter its
current orbital period is just under six
and a half years the Rosetta mission was
designed to answer critical questions
what is the material composition of the
nucleus what forces have acted on the
nucleus to produce its unique shape how
have its surface features evolved and
what is its dynamic relationship to the
Sun and the solar wind a particular
interest will be the analysis of readily
vaporized materials volatile such as
water ice or carbon dioxide ice the
popular model of comets today requires
detectable volatile zeeeee because it
assumes that comets become active due to
warming by the Sun absence of such
volatile either on the surface or
exploding from beneath the surface would
bring an end to a theory that has
dominated comet science for more than 60
years
thought to resemble a dirty snowball but
does this theoretical assumption
actually hold what would it mean for
example if the Rosetta mission brought
comet theorists face to face with a dry
rock in space for decades comet
investigation has been punctuated
largely by surprises but there is a
well-supported alternative it does not
forbid water ice on comets but doesn't
require ice either it is the electric
comet hypothesis and it anticipates some
profound surprises in the appearance and
the behavior of comet 67p it predicts
that we will see electrical activity and
that this activity will amount to an
electro chemical factory creating
chemical byproducts that are not native
to the nucleus including water as the
probe drew close to the nucleus of 67p
the shock to mission scientists could
not be contained to roughly hewn lobes
joined by a thin neck cavernous
depressions sharp peaks inspires
projecting into space sandy dunes and
other bizarre configurations of sand and
dust all in the absence of an atmosphere
to create them and across the entire
surface a field of sharp edged rock like
rubble in the vacuum and deep freeze of
remote space how could a dirty snowball
or an icy dirt ball have slowly accreted
into such a profoundly irregular object
all from a primitive cloud of ice
particles and dust
67p looks like a jumble of fused rock
but comet theorists say that appearances
could be deceiving us as the Rosetta
probe accompanies 67p over the next year
it will likely answer that question and
a lot more the space sciences as a whole
and comet theory in particular are
inseparably entwined is it possible that
our understanding of comets is mistaken
at the theoretical ground floor if so
the effects will reach far beyond our
ideas about comets and that's a very
good reason to follow the evidence
wherever it leads
you
