welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info a new scientific paper describes an
ongoing mystery astronomers are facing
in the atmosphere of Venus in 2006 the
European Space Agency's satellite Venus
Express arrived at Venus and recorded
the astonishing images of a twin cyclone
above the planets South Pole for reasons
that mainstream astronomers have yet to
explain the structure of the so-called
super storm constantly evolves and the
vortex itself is thought to be a
permanent feature however this puzzle
may not be the greatest challenge the
extraordinary Venusian atmosphere poses
to planetary scientists scientists have
found from spacecraft orbiting Venus for
the last six years that there is an
unexplained twin cyclone at the planet
South Pole and various headlines are
given to this Venus cyclone constantly
changes in planets bizarre atmosphere
scientists find Venus vortices go for
chaotic multi-story strolls around the
poles says another and a third says
whirl winds wander around Venus's South
Pole now there's a mystery that's been
known for many years now about Venus's
atmosphere and that is that it rotates
60 times faster than the planet and
there is no known driving mechanism that
can perform this amazing feat now in the
electric universe model of the solar
system there is an input to all of the
planets which it goes unrecognized by
atmospheric scientists and that is the
electrical input from the sun's circuit
and when you have electricity being fed
into a circuit it can drive motors and
it can cause rotation now in the case of
Venus it's obvious that something is
driving that atmosphere 60 times faster
than the planet and it's not coming from
inside the planet even though it is
super hot and it's not coming from the
Sun because if you look at the outermost
planets of the solar system you will
find that the fastest winds in the solar
system are on the outermost planet
Neptune where winds have been clocked at
a thousand kilometres an hour so there's
obviously a driving mechanism that just
doesn't feature in any theory or model
of how planets atmospheres work and this
has significance also for the earth and
the discussions about climate change
there's an energy input which isn't
being factored in to the climate change
argument the report states the vortex is
never destroyed but it evolves
continuously between morphologies or
shapes the cause for the constant
evolution remains a puzzle that the team
still hopes to solve well the thing is
that the fact that the morphology
changes but the basic vortex is never
destroyed is primary evidence for the
fact that it is a twin filament electric
current that is impinging on the Polar's
of Venus the same type of phenomenon
seen at Venus's South Pole is found
elsewhere in the solar system and is a
predictable feature of the electric
universe in 2005 when scientists using
the Keck Observatory discovered a warm
vortex at the South Pole of Saturn
Thornhill made a prediction that could
only seemed preposterous from a
conventional viewpoint he wrote the
electric universe predicts experiment
and Cruces that both poles should be hot
not one hot and the other cold in 2008
NASA's Cassini scientists were
astonished to discover a mysterious
hotspot at Saturn's North Pole this was
astonishing because the freezing North
Pole had been deprived of sunlight for
over 12 years
the interesting thing about the form of
the tornadoes at both poles because
earlier such a twin tornado was
discovered at the north pole of Venus in
2005 I wrote about Saturn saying that
the hot South Pole would be found to be
mirrored by the northern pole which had
been in darkness for 14 years and that
that would be a crucial test of the
electrical power input model you see the
power or the electrical connection
of the Sun to the planets occurs
generally at the poles in the Earth's
case we see that in the form of Aurora's
and when the Sun is particularly active
you will see powerful Aurora's which
extend down to lower latitudes also you
will notice in Aurora's that the
movement is remarkably changeable and
sudden now this is the one of the
features of the twinging cyclones at the
poles of Venus now the other thing I
pointed out in the earlier article was
that when the twin vortex was discovered
at the North Pole of Venus it had the
same shape as would be expected from an
electrical current connection to the
pole of Venus now the reason I say that
is that plasma cosmologists and plasma
scientists know that electric currents
flow in a plasma that is the thin
conducting medium that occupies the
entire solar system and the entire
universe for that matter it is the
conducting medium when an electric
current flows through that medium you
will get filaments formed and you've all
seen that kind of thing in the novelty
plasma balls and one of the things you
notice about the plasma balls is that
the current inside those spheres flows
in filaments and that those filaments if
you look closely at the ends of them
appear to be twisting not only that they
move about as if they're almost alive
and this is one of the features
mentioned in the report about the south
polar vortexes on Venus because with six
years of looking at the south polar
vortex it's been shown that the movement
is always of two centers two cyclones
moving around and often connected by
some
kind of filament between the two and
that that motion is chaotic so it has
all the features of that you'd expect
from the kinds of filaments you see in a
globally plasma ball for continuous
updates on space news from the electric
universe stay tuned to Thunderbolts dot
info
