[Music]
[Music]
he titled why so surprising is basically
an answer to the previous presentation I
gave about surprising solar system it
had had that described a number of
things that were found immediately after
the Space Age started that were all
announced by surprise or unexpected or
some types of words of astonishment and
this is tour sort of to explain why that
is and it turns out that a lot of times
people have a paradigm and they only see
what fits that paradigm they don't look
at other things their paradigm was based
on the quorum consensus that basically
we know everything nothing ever happened
and a lot of times the quorums are quite
fine but as they pointed out here
sometimes it means you get the answer
spectacularly wrong and in 1950 that's
exactly what happened and here they say
they didn't look at things in a
different way she tried to get the
astronomers to look at things
differently and this is wave after 1950
after all of the surprises and she
pointed out it didn't work they didn't
want to do that and the problem was in
1950 these things were assumed and
widely believed basically myth was pure
fiction no global catastrophe has ever
occurred
electromagnetic fields don't have
anything to do with a solar system or
the universe and as dr. Scott pointed
out earlier a lot of people still say
okay so they're out there but they don't
do anything and he said that the solar
system was formed in its current
configuration billions of years ago and
nothing ever changed
well somebody you wasn't in the club
came along and wrote a book and said all
of those things are not true so
immediately the accepted theory people
started jumping on him because if those
assumptions were true then obviously
they had a point he didn't know what he
was talking about but the old saying is
if you start with a bad assumption you
can prove anything you want and they
started with a bad assumption but years
of data indicated that it was a bad
assumption so we'll go through those
four things the first one was that
people have found out that myths do
contain data in fact Massey is a
archaeologists basically with the
National Lab in Los Alamos and he said
that there's basically largely untapped
data set in the mythology that's
untapped as their phrase for ignored
previously but now they have found out
that the myths do contain data and
they're going to start looking at it
they've also found out that our
basically knew for years like Lange in
the 1880s said that myths are the same
worldwide and then Grant pointed out
that you'd be amazed even staggered at
how all of the myths pretty much say the
same thing some are just now catching on
in Australia somebody did some analysis
recently and said that the myths there
coincide quite closely with a number of
the Greek myths the second thing was
supposedly no global catastrophes but it
was around 1980 when the Alvarez's
alvarez and his son and alvarez later
got a nobel prize for a lot of this work
and they determined that the a global
catastrophe wiped out the dinosaurs
now there weren't any people around then
so they didn't make myths about that
catastrophe but it opened the door for
people to say well maybe that we did
have a cold but catastrophes not
happening billions of years ago the this
one was 56 million 65 million years ago
but then they found another one of 56
million years ago that he said okay
hey there's getting closer and closer to
the current time then they found out hey
not only to have a global catastrophes
but we had some recent ones the
Pleistocene which was around 11,000
years ago supposedly changed in 40 years
from basically the Ice Age to no Ice Age
and these stories about that are pretty
much Universal again all over the globe
so Firestone and all said something
happened we may not have the exact model
as to what but apparently something did
happen not only that we had recent
global catastrophes with geological data
in the 50s basically and before that
even if you had a catastrophe such as
the Barringer crater which was
supposedly about fifty thousand years
ago at that time before the 50s they
tried to say well it was real of volcano
but all the evidence of the volcano has
disappeared but it couldn't have been a
meteorite because we don't allow that
but then now there have a peer-reviewed
collection of papers where they say oh
yeah we had recent geological
information available from myths in 1955
when Velikovsky wrote earthing of evil
there was such a reaction to his book
worlds and collision that talked about
mythology that he wrote earth and
upheaval which was only geological
information and in it he said that it
was apparent that dinosaurs are a lot of
the bones of the time period of the
dinosaurs
they died in a traumatic event and at
the time the theory was that
well they died in bed of old age and
their bones washed into the river and
got all jumbled up
and but they found out even in 2007 that
something happened while they were dying
not after they are before they died
Derek ager ER was head of the British
Geological Society for a while and he
said he wrote the new catastrophism and
in it he said there were great
geological events not recorded in our
histories they were recorded but to
Hager and other people of the time they
were myths and didn't really mean
anything but they found out since then
he they did mean something and people
for years have recognized that something
happened in the past and it's possibly
explainable Weston in 1696 talked about
a big comet impacted the earth and that
a lot of the biblical stories could be
explained naturally from that event and
the church kind of ignored that but then
he said some other things they didn't
like so they arrested him and hauled him
off and but he at the time had the same
chair that Newton had previously had and
the one that Hawking has now so it was
you know fairly influential but the fact
that he got arrested kind of discouraged
thinking along those lines for a while
until Donnelly came along in the 1880
and he said that there was a big comet
impacted the earth and that the fear of
comets today was a result of that impact
and let's face it he was a lawyer in a
congressman so you can understand why
people might ignore that but then
Velikovsky came along in 1950 and
basically said the same thing hey myths
contain data you can explain a lot of
things through that and but he was an
outsider with a respect to geology or no
astronomy the main sciences at the time
and he was a MD psychiatrist and
historian so they ignored him too and
later of course Dave Talbot and warder
Cardona came up with a lot of
information about recognizing that the
recorded data is real and useful
information and it's obviously no longer
1950 because you can at least talk about
it
but again agar that we talked about
before said that for a century and a
half the geological world one might even
say brainwashed with uniformitarianism
and that the dangerous doctrine inu
uniformity was oh thank you
but nearly 40 years before a Gurr
Velikovsky said the real enemy of the
theory of evolution is teaching
uniformity are the non occurrence of any
extraordinary events in the past so
Hager agreed with Velikovsky although he
probably didn't know it and wouldn't
have liked the fact that he agreed with
Velikovsky there was also guilt by
association there was such a reaction to
Velikovsky that any time anybody said
something that might sound like
Velikovsky said it they would wouldn't
want to do it that's why in 72 Gould
used the term punctuated and equilibrium
because Velikovsky had started the term
catastrophic evolution and so they
couldn't say that but now everybody
pretty much agrees but that's right and
that the punctuation came from something
outside and they said hey it's pretty
much an observation as opposed to just a
flat-out Theory type thing but the way
Clube and others have applied punctuated
equilibrium it fits quite well
and say they say that the ice age was
caused even from something else which
was around 11,500 years ago another
major catastrophe in fact they said a
mars-sized object well that's a pretty
big object to have been impacting the
earth and causing a change from the Ice
Age
but luckily science changes and pretty
much science now goes along with what
Velikovsky said in earthing uphill but
of course you can't mention them still
the third item was electromagnetic
fields and Velikovsky suggested to the
people that were planning the
geophysical year when they were going to
send probes up and stuff and he said hey
why don't you see about the magnetic
field of the earth how far up it goes
and if it goes beyond the moon and they
said it decreases in altitude so you
wouldn't expect anything like that and
that he invented electromagnetic fields
to explain all that stuff that he had
written before and he suggested through
has who was the head of the Princeton
Geological the geology department at the
time that they measure the orientation
of the rocks that they were going to get
on their first lunar trip and they said
yeah why bother there's no magnetic
field up there and then that was one of
the surprises he we sweet a major of the
magnetics of the direction of the
orientation of the rocks and Velikovsky
also asked him saying do you really
think that you could have this
electromagnetic field which they had
found by the end and that goes beyond
the moon and not affect the moon and of
course no they thought of it as a
rhetorical question but then it found
out that hey the every time the moon
encounters of the Earth's magnetosphere
you have activity going on up there
so they determined that magnetic fields
are important and pointed out that alpha
and others said that years ago but they
were basically ignored another one that
surprises is there's another magnetic
moon that they really hadn't expected
because still the idea of well yeah
you've got a electromagnetic field that
happens to interact with our moon but
nothing else could have one and moon
certainly wouldn't have one but they
said either something wrong with our
theory or our understanding of Kenny
Meads their history and I suggest maybe
it's both I said that the electric
activity on Io
may be a result of a large electric
currents
so we've gone from no electromagnetic
fields to ok magnetic fields when we
need them and now even some electric
currents and more oddities the fields
don't even line up right so the thing on
this is of course create a concern among
planetary scientists about how plan
planetary magnetic fields are generated
that's one of the things that wall and
Don talk about considerably
another thing is x-rays you've got a lot
of x-rays appearing at places that they
didn't expect and you've got to have
three things to get the x-rays you've
got to have a source of charged
particles something to speed them up and
something for them to impact and they
say hey we've got all of these x-rays
that we don't understand and puzzling
because they shouldn't be there in no
model fits them and again there's a gap
in our knowledge or something basic is
missing basic and missing in this case
is the assumptions for the theory even
x-rays from Pluto well you know it's bad
enough this went from I not even being a
planet in out Scott x-rays that just
shouldn't have and again the constant
speed from the Sun can create creative
extra
but not to the extent that they found
that the will in the ones that are on
Pluto in the lightning spokes the
Saturn's rings you know supposedly
known for years that they were just
debris from collisions and nothing
electrical and now that they found that
they've got these lightning strokes that
go through them and the interesting
thing here is ten thousand times more
energetic and on the earth at least they
admit electrically charged dust in 1950
the theory was that comets are dirty
snowballs and they came from this comet
field way out at the edge of space and
wander in and when they get close to the
Sun and get close to the sudden they
heat up and create the comet tails but
even in 1964
some people said hey comments are
plasmas and of course that was ignored
and so al fain pointed out that
sometimes you even sweep under the rug
observations that don't fit the current
view and that applies to the theory of
comets even in nineteen eighty eighty
five still Sagan was saying comets only
an iceberg also the wind
creates mountains our dues that go the
wrong direction with respect to what you
would expect from the wind and they say
that at least admit in this case they
may be an electoral process
electrostatic process is it affecting
this and they're saying that hey there
was probably a freighter link between
comets and asteroids than we previously
thought and that 67p in particular
violates conventional wisdom of comets
resembling smooth dirty snowballs and
the lock the 2015 comment it's time to
stop thinking of comets as dirty
snowballs another the fourth item that
they used as to why belikov Z's got to
be wrong is that these solar system's
been in its current configuration for
billions of years and they even have a
law that demonstrates that was called
Bo's law at the time but then they
finally realized well bodes tolet if
from Tisha's so with the old you know
and it wasn't a bad fit really the
actual stuff and what the boat law says
so it kind of falls apart when you get
past Jupiter but it's not really that
bad and even as late as 72 they assumed
that the equation reflected the early
solar system which was a way of saying
hey Velikovsky's you out to be wrong
cause Bowdoin will roll well worked
forward so we'll but as I mentioned
oh it stole it from dishes and so they
started calling it the dishes food rule
sort of like the old Soviet thing of you
steal something when you get caught you
give half back well it turns out that in
the Tisha's bold rule if you change the
0.3 to 0.6 everything remains exactly
the same except there's no orbit for
Venus so you could say if you thought it
meant anything which it doesn't you
could say it showed Venus it was the
last one in but it's basically what is
called a curve fit you take a bunch of
data and you write a formula to fit the
data and so you shouldn't be surprised
that it fits the data well that's what
they did with the Tisha's mode rule they
just curve fit the planet orbits and
then said that proved they'd been there
forever it's really not proof of
anything
[Music]
and astronomers would still use it until
you bring up the point three two point
six part and then there admit that it
doesn't really mean anything oh also
when it is stress I'm not saying this
supports anything about a Venus model at
all because it's a curve hit so by 1960
the original solar system wasn't really
considered secret anymore
but it was still used as to why
Velikovsky must be wrong
but even these people who were well
known in their fields were saying hey
here's change that probably took place
in the solar system and they were saying
this at the same time that other
astronomers were saying no it never
could have happened well they were
weren't saying it couldn't have happened
they were just saying Velikovsky's about
it got to be wrong and this is one of
the reasons but nice thing about science
is they eventually changed with the data
and so they pretty much now say hey plan
has changed and they've even say Venus
collided with a similar body jupiter and
saturn have close encounters with
neptune these people have a huge amount
of simulations of various types where
planets change orbits and in case go
through the references too fast the book
that have mentioned that may come out on
Kindle Monday is titled Aurora
petroglyphs and pagans and it's got all
this information in the previous
information about surprising solar
system and a lot of the information
about the plasmas oh I liked this
quotation be forgiven for thinking the
eight planets drift
in from different parts of the cosmos
and current theories can't account for
all of it so obviously what they thought
in 1950 no longer applies they say hey
it's not really that stable in this one
eventually a close encounter as sender
innermost planet can rename or careening
wildly and this goes along with the
agree that it's completely different
thinking now but now they're even
comfortable with all of these things
bouncing around and they said that
Jupiter and Saturn formed differently
another one there's supposedly two body
at 18 au Uranus is now around 19 au but
it it was twice the mass of the Earth
and collided with either Neptune or
Uranus so obviously some kind of odd
carrying on now they assume all of these
things happened billions of years ago
but every now and then they'll throw in
a thing that well this happened within
the last 10 million years so in fact
they have somewhere moons of one planet
collided they say within the last and
million years and it will happen again
in another ten million years well how
many times has it happened you know they
assumed ten million years just because
it's got to be a long time but maybe it
wasn't that long and they say
free-floating planets may have been
captured in fact Planet 9 may have been
a rogue planet now a lot of this may
bring to mind work fugly toward in
Cortona and he's got a lot of
information about that and I think Dave
Talbot and others probably have similar
things that go along with what door do
was saying not only is there just one
out there there's lots of objects out
there so billions of stars have captured
rogue planets so it's not just a one-off
thing that might have been weird for our
particular history but seems to happen
all the time and how these rogue planets
formed defy current popular theories of
now solar systems formed you can have a
lot of details wrong and the more
details you have the more likely you're
going to have details wrong in fact
there's a saying in computer programming
where if you find a bug in a computer
program
there's 99% chance they're going to find
another bug so in the larger the program
the more likely you're going to find
these
well that's the same thing the more
detailed you have in a theory the more
likely one of the details is going to be
wrong but lots of people have had
details wrong the Copernicus didn't have
all the details right
but he's still highly thought of
Velikovsky had a few details wrong but
that doesn't mean that his four main big
picture items that we discussed were
wrong in fact those major components of
his theory were correct and agreed to by
all now and sometimes you can have a big
picture wrong Newton's sign square law
which was wrong and some say that it
held back development of flight for
years because of the calculations that
you did with it and history's filled
with great scientists you even had
unscientific ideas and some of the
people mentioned us on our Raleigh and
JJ Thompson and a lot of very famous
people so being wrong every now and then
shouldn't run your reputation either
belikov see stuff described something
that was all natural and a lot of times
he was associated with the space aliens
did at all people and that was another
way of ignoring what he said if he can
lump him in with somebody that you're
pretty sure is a little odd on some of
the things that they're postulating then
it's easier to just
dump them all in the same category but
he said that they were all natural
clauses basically and the plasma science
helps even support more so that they
were natural causes and the work of
Broughton Scott go along those lines so
21st century thinking is completely
opposite of nineteen fifty mythology
does contain and data clova catastrophes
did occur electro many fields do play an
important part and the solar system was
not formed in its current configuration
Experion years ago used X because in
1950 DX kept changing further and
further back it's complicated and here's
the important part
more often than we might expect
conclusions that contradict initial
intuition the initial intuition in 1950
was that let's assume nothing ever
happened and try to explain everything
we can from that standpoint there was a
nice initial thought but the data didn't
support it but people weren't willing to
look at the contradictions so disclaimer
which is usually in very small print but
I'm not trying to support anybody's
particular model I'm just saying that
the data is there showing the four major
things that Velikovsky said in 1950 that
they're all worth pursuing and that
there's enough data
in those four areas for somebody to come
up with a model and the more people
trying to do that probably the better
and a lot of interesting models these
are in alphabetical order but you
probably recognize most of these people
but maybe Firestone might be and Napier
might be a little different
Duncan Steele wrote a book he
concentrated on the model explaining why
calendars were invented but he goes
through a lot of data that needs to be
explained in somebody's model there was
a book
built to last and they talked about the
Tyrian a carry any of the are that
you're quite often forced to pick this
or that you know format arianism are
catastrophes in 1950 you had to pick one
you weren't allowed to consider the
possibility that uniformitarianism is
valid between catastrophes thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
