welcome to space news from the electric
Universe brought to you by the
Thunderbolts project at
thunderbolts.info
on May 31st 2013 a 3 km asteroid called
QE2 passed within 3.6 million miles of
Earth astronomers used the opportunity
to take radar images of the asteroid and
its 750 m satellite the scientists
describe QE2 as dark red and primitive
and conclude that the asteroid is an
entirely new Beast nothing like any
asteroid we visited with a spacecraft
but how does the electric Universe
interpret this apparently anomalous
asteroid Dr Ellen Hal a US ra research
astronomer at arbo Observatory who took
both radar images of the asteroid at
arbo and Optical and infrared images
using the infrared telescope facility in
Hawaii said what makes this asteroid so
interesting aside from being an
excellent Target for radar Imaging is
the color and the small
Moon asteroid QE2 is dark red and
primitive that's her description and of
course primitive is just an
interpretation she goes on to say that
is it hasn't been heated or melted as
much as other asteroids she says QE2 is
nothing like any asteroid we've visited
with a spacecraft or plant to or that we
have meteorites from it's an entirely
new beast in the managerie of asterid
oids near Earth now the idea that this
is quite different from all other
asteroids and meteorites of course may
be more apparent than real because if we
go back and have a a look at something
uh that was said earlier by Dr Patrick
Taylor another us ra research astronomer
at aroso uh he said that um
approximately one out of six asteroids
near Earth have
moons and this is a very interesting and
difficult to
explain attribute of
asteroids Dr Tom Tom van fandon uh in
his book Dark Matter missing planets and
new comets writes in fact many minor
satellites of asteroids would either
fall onto the surface of their parent or
Escape into their own solar orbit within
10,000 to 10 million years or so with
such a short time scale for orbital
evolution by Tides these satellites
ought not to be as abundant as they seem
to be unless they had a recent origin
this fits precisely with the electric
Universe model which suggests that
asteroids comets meteorites all the
debris that's floating around in the
solar system were produced in Close
Encounters between planets in the recent
past and those encounters involve
electrical exchanges which actually tore
matter from the bodies of the planets
and hurled it into space this would fit
both both with the fact that the
asteroids are found in certain belts in
the solar system and it also fits with
the observation that so many of these
asteroids and smaller bodies in the
solar system have satellites the idea is
that if these objects were formed in an
explosion as Tom van fandon pointed out
without actually explaining how a planet
might explode then the material is
released in the same vicinity and it's
also ejected from the gravitational
influence of the parent body under these
circumstances the influence of the
larger pieces of the debris expands and
it means that it is able to capture
nearby smaller pieces of debris in other
words to form a satellite and this is
what we find so Tom van fand's idea is
supported but it's not a planetary
explosion it's something that was
actually observed by ancient man as
we've been able to uncover and that is
electrical exchanges the Thunderbolts of
the the gods ripped material from the
Martian surface in particular and so the
fact that this particular asteroid shows
a reddish and strange surface fits the
suggestion that it is probably a piece
of Martian surface that we're looking at
and it satellite also would have been
captured from that same
event for continuous updates on Space
news from the electric Universe stay
tuned to thunderbolts.info
[Music]
