our celestial neighbor the planet Mars
astronomers once considered Mars to be a
long barren and geologically dead Rock
in space but since the arrival of our
probes beginning in the 1960s the planet
has come alive for us it does not reveal
the inactive and worn down landscape
astronomers and planetary scientists had
expected nevertheless investigators
continue to apply geologic concepts
based on their understanding of the
earth and the moon they could only see
volcanism erosion surface movement and
surface collapse all punctuated by
episodic impacts from space over
billions of years what force created the
sharply cut gouges and depressions
across the surface of Mars looking as if
a giant trowel descended to scoop out
material and radically different and
irreconcilable depths
running north to south we see massive
inter woven scratches or grooves
extending hundreds of miles and how
remarkable that a planet only half the
diameter of Earth exhibits canyons on a
scale dwarfing anything seen on our own
planet and mountains that would tower
over Mount Everest today no planet
outside the earth has received more
attention than Mars but the mysteries
and theoretical contradictions have
grown spectacularly for decades now
investigators have wondered why the two
hemispheres of Mars look as if they were
formed in different worlds a southern
hemisphere dominated by craters
a Northern Hemisphere with only sparsely
scattered craters and note the
contrasting crustal depths of the two
hemispheres shallow crust in the north
much thicker crust in the south why
would a planet evolving in isolation
displace are too profound dichotomy it's
as if some unknown force excavated the
northern crust miles deep the
hemispheric removal of crustal material
requires a force external to Mars acting
on the planet but when it comes to
external events scientific convention
has only one thing to work with random
collisions could a planetoid or huge
asteroid crashing into Mars have removed
millions of cubic miles of crust a
shattering impact is all that theory
would allow
but what would Martian history look like
where we to include electrical events
events on a scale sufficient to sculpt
the surface of the red planet from pole
to pole
of all the enigmatic features in the
solar system perhaps none provokes
greater amazement than Valles Marineris
the largest Canyon on any planet her
moon the deep trench complex stretches a
third of the way around the planet
hundreds of times larger than the Grand
Canyon
it would reach from San Francisco to New
York and beyond prior theory of
planetary formation had never
anticipated such a chasm on a small
planet what natural force excavated this
colossal trench
with the arrival of the Mariner probes
NASA scientists thought the chasm could
have been cut by water erosion though
nothing even close was ever achieved by
water on the known watery planet earth
on any erosional hypothesis three
million cubic miles of material were
removed three million cubic miles and it
had to go somewhere neither the means of
fluid drainage nor the vast outflow
required are in evidence now we know
that the Valles Marineris reaches to a
greater depth than any outflow channel
originally envisioned and the
tributaries imagined by some turned out
to be cleanly cut alcoves and stubby
depressions they are not connected to
feeder streams at all
one portion of the Valles Marineris
system in particular underscores our
point here planetary scientists
acknowledge that heebies canyon much
larger than our Grand Canyon is an
inseparable part of Valles Marineris the
scientists have now acknowledged it was
certainly not created by water
nor is it plausible to suggest that
surface spreading created the massive
chasm the Valles Marineris with its
repeated morphology of sharply scalloped
walls the surface was not torn it was
carved and the detailed images imply a
removal of material along the entire
length of the chasm a process clearly
illustrated by the neatly machined
so-called tributaries all the way up to
their rounded cleanly cut terminations
whatever formed the canyon complex did
not stop at the margins of the primary
channel but added irregular craters and
crater chains and surface grooves and
gouges so the question cannot be escaped
is there anything known to science today
that can account for the extraordinary
profile of Valles Marineris there is an
explanation well known to science though
it's never entered the geologists
lexicon blimey
the laboratory its power is demonstrated
in electric discharge experiments but
the form unfamiliar to conventional
science today is the cosmic Thunderbolt
a primary theme of our own investigation
it was the brilliant engineer Ralf
j√ºrgens who first suggested decades ago
that a cosmic Thunderbolt carved Valles
Marineris
with the benefit of more recent data
electrical theorists Wallis Thornhill
returned to this extraordinary
possibility
yes the electric hypothesis will unnerve
many scientists but it is the only
hypothesis that meets the test of direct
observation here is a scar left by an
electric arc on a piece of wet wood and
a second example of a discharge to a
piece of wood
electric discharge provides a direct and
complete explanation for the Valles
Marineris the so called tributaries of
the valley were cut by secondary
streamers of the discharge that is a
typical signature of an electric arc
when it cuts a surface channel and here
is the scar from electric discharge to
an insulator notice in particular the
network of secondary streamers to the
left a perfect counterpart to the
western edge of Valles Marineris
it was long-held that this remarkable
region on Mars was the result of uplift
fracturing and spreading and from a
distance it did look like fracturing but
with a closer view in front of us it is
simply irrational to cling to that
interpretation material has been cleanly
removed exactly as in the discharging to
the insulator
the evidence now available demands a new
perspective a larger field of view in
Thornhill's interpretation the discharge
took the form of a plasmoid not unlike
the plasmoid from which a spiral galaxy
is formed
on his website
Thornhill noted how the discharge effect
spiraled upward to the east and downward
to the West an effect that shows up
quite clearly on the elevation map given
on his website in fact if we extend the
view of the elevation map we see an even
larger effect it seems that the
spiraling trails to the east and west
nearly completed two circles as they
swung back toward the trench itself but
one difference between the northern and
the southern extension stands out the
northern extension is entirely
constituted of ravines and depressions
while the southern extension consists of
ridges and mountainous terrain for this
unusual contrast electrical experiments
offer a startling explanation it was
George Christoph Lichtenberg who in the
18th century first showed that electric
arcs create ravine networks on more
negatively charged surfaces and elevated
ridges on more positively charged
surfaces could it be that simple that a
cosmic Thunderbolt
carving Valles Marineris acted on to
regions of different charge negative to
the north and positive to the south
if such was the case the only plausible
cause of the charge differential would
be an electrical exchange between Mars
and other charged bodies in the past and
what was the relationship of these
events to the hemispheric dichotomies
the removal of crustal material through
the north and the densely cratered
southern hemisphere in the electrical
interpretation the violent excavation of
the surface to create Valles Marineris
would have created immense deposits of
sediment on surrounding topography
and indeed we see that previous craters
in the region were completely buried
with only the largest craters appearing
as outlines penetrating through the deep
deposits it's apparent that the released
material had a net drift to the west
since the blanket of deposited sediment
stretches all the way to the eastern
flank of the towering olympus mons keep
in mind as well that an electric
discharge at energies necessary to
create the chasm of Valles Marineris
would have ejected great volumes of
rocky material into space much of the
rocky debris would have fallen back to
littered the margin landscape and indeed
shattered rock of all sizes across the
surface of Mars is a long-standing
mystery and the mystery is resolved by
electrical events on a continental and
even hemispheric scale given the
energies of the events considerable
volumes of material would have surely
escaped the planet altogether and what
might this tell us about the Mars earth
connection in our reconstruction of
ancient events or the surprising
discovery that rocks from Mars have
fallen on our own planet
you
