thank you very much I'd like to begin
again by expressing my honor to be here
I've really met a lot of nice people so
it's been a it's been a privilege to
attend the conference as you remember
yesterday I started my talk by speaking
about anchoring so the question becomes
if you're going to do physics you do
have to trust the laws of physics I mean
we can't just go back and recheck
everything every time we do something or
else physics wouldn't advance and
actually some laws are almost forgotten
like kirchoff's law a few people use it
in astrophysics most people don't think
about it at all but it's an extremely
important it's it's a lot of extremely
important consequences actually I as I
spoke about yesterday relative to the
Cosmic Microwave Background
I mentioned that Penzias and Wilson are
not allowed to take a temperature and
the reason that they're not is that they
cannot guarantee that they understand
the nature of their source that it has
no conduction no convection basically
that the universe would be the same as
the condition required by Kirchhoff's
law which is thermal equilibrium with an
enclosure now I have reassigned that
signal to water and I've said that water
has different degrees of freedom and B
and its ability to contain energy in any
one degree of freedom it can be vastly
different so the hydrogen bond contain
very little energy
it's basically full right around three
Kelvin and then the hydroxyl bond can
take much more energy into it so that
degree of freedom it can handle more
energy well all materials are going to
be like that
real materials are going to be written
aid up of real atoms that are
oscillating against each one another
there's going to be electrons and
conduction bands valence electrons and
all these things that are making up that
real material are going to have
different degrees of freedom and those
degrees of freedom will have a different
ability to take up energy now this is
Kirchhoff's law is important the
downfall of Kurt
slaw is important because physics will
start looking at materials a different
way because they know that this law is
no longer universal so that has
implications in statistical
thermodynamics now relative to the Sun
it's extremely important because if
kirchoff's law is not valid you can
never have a gaseous Sun because a
gaseous Sun uses the equations of
radiative transfer and those equations
all have at their source kirchoff's law
of thermal emission so for instance in
Mills classic paper on local thermal
equilibrium
he states that at the center of the Sun
you can have blackbody radiation because
the atoms there are colliding so quickly
that you can consider things enclosed
but actually he described a condition
for conduction not thermal radiation so
you cannot have blackbody radiation at
the center of the Sun and with
kirchoff's law collapsing this is the
only thing that's required for the
gaseous Sun to go away now of course the
collapse of kirchoff's law also means
that we don't have universality and this
has consequences relative to our
understanding of universal constants
like planks and Boltzmann's and we
should remember the laws of physics they
summarize experimental observations if a
formulation is contrary to laboratory
findings it cannot continue to exist as
a law of physics it is in this light the
kirchoff's law can no longer hold any
place in the annals of science so now
that I've been so hard on for Kirchhoff
I did want to say that he was still a
brilliant scientist remember he's the
father of spectroscopy we have spectral
analysis because of him he was the first
with Bunsen to analyze elements on the
Sun and also we for the electrical
engineers here we all know the laws of
current come from him but unfortunately
his law collapses and the proper law is
comes from balford Stewart it was
written two years before and that law is
much simpler than Kirchhoff's it doesn't
say that all cavities
came black radiation it just says that
at thermal equilibrium the emissivity of
an object will be equal to its absorbed
Tiffany so in this talk I'm going to
review thermal emission and I'm going to
give you a statement of kirchoff's law
then will quickly cover Planck's
equation and it's a nurse so derivation
einstein's derivation I'll just glance
over it no not too much time and I'll
just present Wiens and Stefan's law then
we'll talk about thermal emissions and
gasses and solids then I will discuss
briefly the experimental basis of
Kirchhoff's error and then we'll talk
about the central thing that comes from
this talk perhaps is the linking of
Planck's equation to physical reality
and this has dramatic consequences for
both physics and chemistry so now you'll
have to excuse me when I did the slides
by the way this was a last minute thing
that I knew I was coming here to give
this particular talk but when I made the
slides I I put the diagram in
wavelengths and the equations in
frequency but it doesn't matter
you you can just put the right diagram
if you want now so Kirchhoff this is a
summary of Kirchhoff's laws it whoops
sorry this is a summary of Kirchhoff's
law and it just says that there's some
function of temperature and it depends
on the image Civet ii of the body
divided by its opacity or absorbed Tiffa
t and so you have some function now
Kirchhoff didn't really know what the
function looked like back then he just
knew it was a continuous spectrum but
what he did believe is that this
equation was universally applicable to
all cavities now here's the statement of
the law from his paper if a space be
entirely surrounded by bodies of the
same temperature so that no rays can
penetrate through them every pencil in
the interior of the space must be so
constituted in regards to its quality
and intensity as if it had proceeded
from a perfectly black body of the same
temperature and must therefore be
independent of the form and nature of
the bodies and determined by temperature
alone so he's saying if I have a cavity
any
it doesn't matter what it's made out of
the radiation inside will always be the
same the interior therefore of an opaque
red hot body of any temperature the
illumination is always the same whatever
be the constitution of the body in any
other respect now
Planck of course is tied to kirchoff's
law as you'll see in this next slide but
Planck initially writes down his
blackbody equation without derivation he
sees the data and by just visualizing
the data
he knows his equation this was a
marvelous feat in physics and still is
today and that's why one of the reasons
that Planck's equation is called a
miraculous equation quantum physics was
born on that day he derives the law he
he then goes ahead after he writes it
down he writes it on a postcard mails it
to his friend and that's how Planck's
law is born he derives the he then
spends many weeks deriving the law of
blackbody radiation treating the problem
with oscillators and then invoking
quantum values for the vibrations so
when you look at Planck's law you see
that within it here you actually have
kirchoff's law this is kirchoff's law
and this is Planck's okay now there's
another law that's quite important this
is called Stefan's law and it this is
used all the time with the astronomers
they actually think that the the
emissivity of a body will always move
with the fourth power of the temperature
well actually there's almost nothing on
earth that follows this law and I will
demonstrate that for you in a couple of
examples and gases but anyhow just the
the total emissivity so the area under
the curve here is just proportional to a
constant times the fourth power of the
temperature okay so if you have a real
black body it's truly black a perfectly
absorbing cavity this will be true but
other than that it's never true now we
ins a lot of thermal emission can also
be used and that law says that if you go
to the maximum wavelength here I switch
back to wavelength for the equation that
the wavelength times the temperature is
just equal to a constant so we won't go
through Planck's derivation but I did
mention to you that it used oscillators
now Albert Einstein very
elegantly derives Planck's equation in
1916 using a two energy system Einstein
coefficients and what people often
forget a radiation field which doesn't
come from nowhere the physical nature of
the transmission the transition species
is never considered so we'll just I
won't go through this too much you you
just got two energy levels and you're
gonna permit transitions within these
levels and he considers energy going
from this one to this one this one to
that one so you have the rate of
stimulated absorption the rate of
spontaneous emission the rate of
stimulated emission he puts them all
together with the the Planck brightness
and then he uses these coefficients and
then poof plant oh and then wait a
minute there's one more thing before the
poof we have to use Boltzmann's
distribution and then of course poof you
get Planck's equation now the problem
with this of course is that people often
forget well people don't forget this
part the critical step in the derivation
was C was to include stimulated emission
if this is not done you get the Rallye
gene solution but Einsteins derivation
also requires the presence of a
radiation field from which he can deduce
his coefficients and he uses Wiens
blackbody approximation to characterize
this the energy of this radiation field
so his derivation looks very easy it's
it's beautiful it's simple but of course
he's introducing something for which we
Ned worked very hard to obtain now
here's a brief review of thermal
radiation so the first thing that we
have we all recognize in this room is
most people in this room will recognize
is that gases always emit radiation in
the discontinuous matter their total
emission now this is something that
people don't always recognize their
total emission can draw up as a function
of temperature and this is in direct
contradiction to Stefan's law right
Stefan's law told us that the temp that
the emission always moves with the
fourth power of the temperature so this
situation is unlike what is found in
solids and liquids so gases solids and
liquids tend to emit in a continuous
manner I won't say that they follow
Stefan's law may be an ideal solid my
so when you learn spectroscopy you the
hit you with this spectrum diatomic
molecules the they have rotational
vibrational spectra which looks
something like this so you know just a
bunch of lines at different frequency
okay if you want to see the actual
spectrum you could just go to this
reference this is uh I did these figures
well my son did a lot of these figures
this shows you how bad I am in art and
this is a figure that is my son had an
exam so you couldn't help me but so this
is just a schematic representation of
absorption bands and for something like
co2 for instance you'll have a bunch of
absorption bands you know and they're
they're discrete and they come down to
zero and there's no there's no
absorption then though
there'll be another band then so you get
bands that's never continuous for gas
now if you look at the emissivity of
carbon dioxide and now we'll look at it
as a function of temperature and I'll
just look at one pressure well what the
log of the emissivity looks like
according to Stefan's law right this
should a move at the fourth power of the
temperature so as the temperature went
up this curve should be going up but in
reality if you look at this
authoritative book on radiative
thermometry you'll see that the
emissivity of carbon dioxide actually
drops with temperature it doesn't go up
and this is true at all pressures so if
you go to this text you'll actually see
a whole bunch of lines you know a whole
bunch of lines all dropping here and
each line will have that will be for a
specific pressure so the emissivity of a
real gas drops with temperature here's
water pressure water vapor the same
thing the emissivity does not follow
Stefan's law for a gas the emissivity
drops with temperature and again you can
have a whole bunch of lines here and
each at a different partial pressure of
a water pressure vapor pressure
now how about solids
solids emit radiation in a continuous
manner their total emission usually does
not follow Stefan's law except in the
crudest sense in materials like graphite
soot or other near ideal absorbers in
all other cases the behavior of the
emission as a function of temperature is
highly erratic and polished metals tend
to have a low emissivity value now this
is important for the people looking at
the Sun because sunspots have low
emissivity and that is just a related to
their high ability to conduct so
different materials if I say okay I'm
going to have different solids well the
way that the light looks like is all
going to be different each material is
going to have is going to give you a
different spectrum okay
so different materials emit light with
varying features which change as a
function of temperature so what are we
describing here an absolute mess right
nothing is universal here all materials
are different right so how did Kirchhoff
come to tell us that things were
universal if you look at the spectrum of
aluminum oxide powders or silicon oxide
powders you'll get spectra that look
like this whereas some free at some
wavelengths there's essentially knowing
it nice and then they'll come up and wow
they have almost perfect immittance over
a very small range okay but this is not
a blackbody spectrum so materials real
materials really vary look at graphite
of course I made this slide myself again
now if you look at graphite for instance
okay you'll see that even when I talk I
said well graphite we can treat it as a
perfect absorber or a perfect emitter
and actually it's true at some
wavelengths graphite can be pretty good
but different graphite comes from
different minds and those different
minds will give you different
emissivities okay so you can have
graphite with terrible emission at
certain frequencies essentially zero
it's not emitting out there okay
so even for graphite it doesn't work
very well
now here's one frequency though at 0.66
a whole bunch of forms of graphite at
point six six micrometers you see that a
whole bunch of forms of graphite
actually give you an emissivity that's
not too bad
you know 0.9 we're getting in close now
in Kurt Ross today what did he used to
do well he made his boxes and then he'd
line him with soot people used to use
blood lampblack in those days they just
took the soot from the lamp and that was
such a good absorber okay so soot has a
structure very similar to graphite and
that's what they use they coated
everything which stood their cooker
monitors their black bodies there the
whole Lab was covered in soot okay so
obviously everything became universal
they busted needed a maid I don't know
okay so now modern physics believes that
blackbody radiation is universal and
this is a resort salt of kirchhoff's air
so let's restate kirchoff's law states
that within a cavity the ratio of
emissive and absorptive powers is
independent of the nature of the cavity
walls and Max Planck wrote according to
kirchoff's law now this is critical for
physics because Planck is about to give
birth to quantum physics here according
to kirchoff's law this radiation is
independent of the nature of the
radiations radiating substance and
therefore has universal significance now
he's not talking about the universe
although we could be it could be
anywhere in the universe but he's
actually talking about from material to
material it doesn't matter make me a
cavity and you're gonna have black
radiation inside of it yet if kirchoff's
law was actually valid is it actually
valid and do arbitrary cavities that we
make in the laboratory do they really
contain black radiation if so why is it
that all our laboratory black bodies are
always constructed from nearly perfectly
absorbing materials so obviously it
cannot be true kirchoff's law can not be
valid or else we'd be making black
bodies out of silver this is also
important there is no proper
mathematical proof of kirchoff's law now
this has been true
in in a paper and he ends his discussion
by saying well then Einstein came along
and then we get kirchoff's law well
unfortunately remember I told you I 9
used a radiation field and that was a
Wiens field and that field was a
blackbody field and it came from a
blackbody saying you can also read these
papers that discuss these issues but
remember black bodies are always made
from nearly per ideal absorbers of
radiation or the frequency of interest
now let's look at kirchoff's law a
little bit we're going to consider two
cases so if I look at the law you saw it
this is a right on the one of the very
first slides and now we're going to
consider two cases we're going to look
at a perfect absorber where the
emissivity is 1 the absorptivity is 1
and then we're going to look at the
perfect reflector where we don't have a
Mississippian absorptivity but we have
reflectivity as 1 so this is a perfect
reflector all they could do is reflect
now when I do this now remember in
physics they tell us well we can assume
that cat that episode that epsilon is
one that we do that all the time we
always assume you can get 1 we have an
ideal blackbody let's assume it can be 1
well let me assume that it could be 0
when I put a 0 in there
this becomes undefined so this equation
doesn't work so the problem is is that
the true equation which is not shown in
this slide but I published in a in
another paper it's just it should be
epsilon plus Rho divided by Kappa plus
Rho is equal to some function of
temperature frequency the nature of the
material and anything else you want to
add into it now do cavities really
contain black radiation now if you look
at some astronomy books they always have
this example lots of storing books have
this example they give us a nice
spherical cavity ok and they say look
would make a very small hole in it and
the radiation that comes in once it
comes in it's trapped and it can't come
out
so therefore the radiation and it must
be black well this is a fallacy because
if it can't come out it never came in
now let's look at this argument now this
argument actually I gave a talk at the
American Physical Society in Denver two
weeks ago it was a poster and in front
of my poster there was a discussion of
this case and the professor who was
discussing it with me we left in a
discord because he couldn't understand
the point so let me go and explain the
point now so astronomers say look I'll
prove to you that every cavity contains
black radiation okay so what they do is
they say okay on the Left I'm going to
take a real black body it's going to be
an ideal black body
okay we know it has black radiation in
that one now the question is does this
one have black radiation in it okay now
I'm gonna take an ideal blackbody this
is gonna be perfectly absorbing wall and
I'm gonna make another cavity with a
perfectly reflecting wall but now I want
to keep my radiation from going into
space in other words I don't want this
wall to be radiating out here right so
what I'll do is I'll take this black
lining here and that's gonna be an
adiabatic barrier adiabatic is a big
word but it only it only means no heat
will go through that wall okay heat is
prevented from going through that wall
in any form so all the energy of this
system is contained within it it cannot
go into the universe same with this one
all the energy contained is within it
and it cannot go into the universe but
now this is a perfect reflector so their
question is does this have black
radiation in it well the argument that
the astronomers make is look if I put
these two cavities together and they're
at the same temperature now they say
these are at the same temperature when
we begin okay when I put them together
photons are going to come from the
cavity on the left into the right that
means that photons from the right cavity
must go into the left one or else the
temperature of the left cavity would
drop and they're already at the same
temperature so that cannot be allowed
under the laws of thermodynamics under
the zeroth law we can assume that
there's another body out there also at
the same temperature the zeroth law
involves three bodies
so because this temperature cannot drop
that means that photons must come from
the right cabbie and go into the left
okay that's the argument that's used in
astronomy but unfortunately that's not
correct because the problem is is what
have you built here you've made a cavity
out of a perfect reflector right and you
put an adiabatic wall around it right so
where's the energy well if you can't put
it in the phonons in the wall and you're
not sure that there's radiation here you
don't even have the same temperature
you can't even characterize this this
cavity with a temperature so here's
another insight now I'm going to take
cavities surrounded by adiabatic walls
and they're now truly going to be at the
same temperature because now what I'm
going to assume is instead of building
cavity to out of a perfect reflector
instead of building cavity to out of the
perfect reflector that's just an
adiabatic wall I'm gonna build it out of
something that's like silver and I'm
gonna say this is gonna be a real
material and when I put these together
what happens is when they're at the same
temperature as soon as a photon wants to
come from the left cavity into the right
a phonon moves from this wall directly
into this one and creates the photon
again so what happens in this experiment
is you just redistribute the energy you
create block radiation in this cavity
but it never had any initially and the
temperatures do not change so this is
the correct way to look at it so cavity
one is transforming phonon energy of
cavity two into photons the energy or
temperature of the system of each system
remains constant
now here's another little experiment and
you know what since I'm running out of
time I'll just tell you that you can
take a perfect box and you could read
this paper is a very simple paper and
the citation is here you could just read
this paper I take a perfectly reflecting
cavity I take a perfectly absorbing
cavity and you can prove that the
radiation inside the perfectly
reflecting cavity will not follow
kirchoff's law but we'll skip it because
we don't have time for it so arbitrary
cavities do not contain black radiation
that's absolutely false
so what is strength what is kirchoff's
box well remember when he was in his lab
coated his box with soot well what he
had discovered is he had made a
transformer of light he wanted to know
what the temperatures of the objects was
he'd put the objects inside the cavity
and then they would occur liberate with
the walls and once the equilibrated this
the spectrum started looking like the
graphite spectrum but there was still
impurity because the the object could
directly emit light right so let's
refine it a little bit and now put
cavity the hide the object over here and
put some put some soot covered walls
inside now the only photons that will
come out will be photons from the soot
if you let this come in thermal
equilibrium with the cavity now you
always get black radiation so what
Kirchhoff had done is he had figured out
a way to take any object he didn't know
his temperature if he put it in the
cavity let them to come to thermal
equilibrium and took the spectrum he
would know the temperature so he had
made a transformer of light so here's an
example if I take an aluminum oxide
chunk I put it inside a cavity we'll
assume that there's walls here it goes
from the aluminum spectrum to the
blackbody spectrum but what if I put it
in a perfect reflector well if you put
it in a perfect reflector you can wait
all day but you're always gonna get
aluminum oxide because that's a perfect
reflector so it can never transform this
spectrum but then this is what Planck
does throughout his work if you read
heat radiation Planck's in love with a
carbon particle he keeps putting it
everywhere inside the problem he wants
to put a little carbon particle in the
box so what cutt playing what Planck
does is he always uses a perfectly
reflecting enclosure okay it's perfectly
reflecting now he knows in the lab that
that doesn't work so what he does is he
says now just ensure that I have the
right radiation I'm gonna go ahead and
put a little piece of graphite in here
and as soon as he does what has he done
he's just put a perfect emitter inside
this box well it's going to become in
thermal equilibrium with this aluminum
oxide right let's make this a silver box
put this guy on the floor put that guy
on the floor there temperatures go to
equilibrium and this starts dominating
all the radiation now you get a
blackbody spectrum so as soon as you put
a perfect absorber and I can show you
this mathematically in one of my papers
as soon as you put a
perfect absorber inside the box you now
govern everything because guess what
this thing is perfect that's as if you
had line the whole cavity with graphite
so Planck had written it is therefore
possible to change a perfectly absorbing
radiation which exists at the start of
an evacuated cavity with perfectly
reflecting walls under consideration but
by the introduction of a minut particle
of carbon as a result Planck came to see
the graphite particle as a catalyst in
fact it was acting as a perfect absorber
it was as if the experimentalist had
lined the entire walls of the box with
graphite as a result both Planck and
Kirchhoff had left the perfectly
absorbing had never left the perfect
absorbing cavity yet Kirchhoff and
planck should have considered the case
of the perfect reflector as a separate
case this was a serious error which
resulted in Planck believing that his
equation could be applied universally so
in conclusion Planck erred when he
assigned to graphite the role of a
catalyst in fact graphite was a perfect
absorber and Kirchhoff and Planck had
never left the perfectly absorbing
cavity so they can't speak about all
cavities all arbitrary cavities having
black radiation they never left them
right they never left the perfectly
absorbing cavity so consequently
Planckian radiation is actually
absolutely dependent on their bate
nature of the emitting object graphite
smoke soot and carbon are still used
today to make black bodies now all black
bodies are always limited to solids
since only they can be perfect absorbers
and can be near-perfect absorbers and
unlike liquids they cannot sustain
convection now this is important
Planck's equation remains the only
fundamental equation in physics which
has yet to be linked to physical reality
Planck couldn't link it because Kershaw
had told them the radiation is
independent of the nature of the walls
so don't look for the cause it's
independent of the nature of the walls
so it was never linked this is a direct
result of Curtiss error we must explain
why a thermal photon is being produced
as a result of the temperature of an
object
this still hasn't been done it's sorry
whenever in physics or chemistry we have
light okay so whenever in physics and
chemistry we have the production of
light we always have to have five
components these must always be defined
we have to have a setting we have to
have the nature of the energy levels we
have to have the nature of the
transition species the equation which
describes the process and finally the
absorption of light so what am I talking
about let's look at the Lyman series
which the astronomers use all the time
the setting is the atom actually the
hydrogen atom what's the energy of the
the energy levels what's the electric
atomic and orbitals right what's the
nature of the transition species it's
the electron everybody knows that what's
the equation is the Ryberg equation with
the Rydberg constant and what's the
production what's the production of
light eventually the Lyman series so
everything is defined very clearly how
about an NMR my discipline well the
setting is the nucleus and now we have
to be fussy we have to take this nucleus
and it has to have spin and we have to
put it in a magnetic field what's the
nature of the energy levels it's the
spin energy levels what's the nature of
the transition species it's a spin
there's an equation describing the
process it's a llamar equation and
finally after all that we get the NMR
lines bah bah bah Planck
what Kirchhoff told us that it's setting
doesn't matter so we don't know the
setting so everything can produce black
radiation the Big Bang the Sun a gaseous
Sun everything can produce it right the
nature of the energy levels are not
defined they've never told us what the
transition species is all we have and
this is all directly because of
Kirchhoff's the first three are missing
because of Kirchhoff all we have is
Planck's equation and the blackbody
spectrum so that Planck's equation has
not been linked is a direct result of
Kirchhoff's era now I have a little joke
here if there's any black hole in
physics that's it
now so I've advanced there is a solution
to this problem because I'm living in
the graphite world I want to live in the
perfect absorber that I know will
produce a spectrum pretty close to a
blackbody so what do I want the setting
I want a nearly perfectly absorbing
solid something like graphite because
that's the closest or soot they have
similar structures so it's not something
very close to that what's the nature of
the energy levels it's probably the
vibrational energy levels within the
lattice so we need a lot Asst you cannot
get a blackbody emission unless you have
a vibrational lattice now that is a big
requirement because there's none in the
Big Bang and there's none in the gaseous
Sun what is the nature of the transition
species well we know that in physics
it's usually always the electron it's
always the electron causing light but I
suspect that in black radiation it's
actually a vibrating nucleus within a
lattice field and then of course we have
the other known too so there's some
consequences here some of them are
positive we are currently portraying
physics as if we understand everything
okay
but in the end the emissive properties
of all cavities are directly dependent
on the nature of the materials involved
okay so that has enormous consequences
not only in real material work but in
theory remember I keep saying the equal
partition theorem is not valid this has
enormous consequences okay that means
that within the material again what you
get the distribution of energy within
that material will depend about what
receptacles it has to take the energy
and that depends on the type of material
you have there is no universality in
cavity radiation and as such the concept
of Boltzmann and Planck are not
Universal in nature and this has
enormous consequences throughout physics
each material must be characterized by
its own constants and its own variables
and finally by admitting our
shortcomings we give hope to our
children that they too can contribute to
the advancement of scientific thought
and discovery now I've written a lot on
kirchoff's law these are some of the
papers this last one just just came out
I want to acknowledge my son for most of
the drawings in this presentation except
the bad ones the sketches of Kirchhoff
and balford Stuart came from Bernadette
I also want to thank my department for
supporting me the editorial staff of
progress in physics where so many of my
papers have been published for accepting
my work and I want to close with this
followed up by Max Planck we cannot
order men to see the truth or prohibit
them from indulging in error thank you
very much
