[Music]
[Music]
good morning ladies and gentlemen thank
you for coming this morning to have it
early to listen to my lecture on the
logical inconsistencies of that special
theory of relativity Einstein wrote a
paper in 1905 that is heralded as a
turning point in our understanding of
the nature of space-time in the universe
it's true in a sense but in the reality
it's unfortunate because it's introduced
the an element of mysticism into physics
so so although it did have this effect
it's been quite a disaster for science
so first I'd like to start off with a
bit of a discussion on dimensions in
units because they're quite different if
we call time T where we can measure the
time T in any kind of unit we could use
it in seconds or years so or hours and
days and lengths if we call length L but
we don't worry about the actual units
that we use we just talk about length
and other than that and we denoted by L
and we can measure that in measures or
meters have feedin light-years four
inches and we have from our common
experience three length dimensions
length breadth and height for instance
in a box we have the length of the box
the width of the box the height of the
box now the obvious thing about is that
if you have a length can you add to it a
time hello oh yes we're back the first
thing is that if we consider now units
we might measure length in meters and
time in seconds can you add meters to
seconds obviously you cannot so you have
to be able to add
it seems that we're working again so and
you can't add or subtract meters from
seconds and vice versa you can only add
the same units in mathematics they're
just numbers so if you've got no units
to them you X's and Y's etc but in
physics we want units there are unit
unitless quantities constants and such
but there are also constants that have
units so units are very important to
physics and strictly speaking an
equation needs to be the left hand side
and you in needs to have the same units
as the right hand side and diligent
engineer and scientist would make sure
that they've got meters on one side if
they'd want meters and the other side of
their equation has also got meters
because if they have meters equal to
seconds there's a bit of a problem so
ultimately they're different dimensions
so if you go back to our generic
dimensions length can't be met added to
time and vice-versa but we already live
in a four-dimensional world because
we've got length three you three sets of
them length breadth and height all units
of length and we have time so we already
live in a four-dimensional world in this
sense but in Einsteins world length and
time the three lengths XY z-- and Zed's
for instance and time are jumbled up
together so that you have a
four-dimensional time which in which you
can add and subtract all of these
quantities in one equation so let's have
a look at how we can denote a position
in place and time where we'll have X is
the length Y is the breadth and Zed is
the height and we'll have T is time so a
time and place can be specified by a set
of coordinates X Y Zed in time for
instance if you say to your friend I'm
going to meet you at the cafe for a
coffee at one o'clock well if you go
there at five o'clock
are you likely to encounter your friend
probably not and if you decided that you
didn't like the cakes can Y Zed
coordinates
you went to a different place you
probably wouldn't make your friend
either so you have to go there X Y Zed
the right coordinates for the place and
at the right time so we already live in
a four-dimensional world so there's
nothing new in Einstein's idea of a well
not nothing new in the idea of a
four-dimensional world in the terms of
Einsteins
conception of the universe because we
already have that what is different is
that the you cannot jumble up XY z-- ins
Ed's and T's jumbled up time and space
together which is what he has done so
for instance the distance between two
points depends on X Y Z and Z it doesn't
depend on time the difference between
Phoenix and I don't know LA the distance
between there is XYZ and Zed's
but it's not a question of time now that
means that the four-dimensional world in
which we live has modeled by Newton is
consistent with Newton so we'll have now
looking at Cartesian coordinates I'm
sure you're all familiar with this from
school usually we'll have the Cartesian
plane x and y here we've had added the
Zed so we have space but it's just like
the corner of a room if for instance if
you look at any corner of this room
because it's a rectangular building we
have an x y&z set of coordinates
immediately before us and they are all
perpendicular to one another not only
that they're independent of one another
so that any distance along well XYZ it's
been purpose because they don't have
components in each other's directions
because their definitions so now I want
to look at a right triangle when we see
how the jumbled up nature of time and
space is based on an error utilizing
right triangles so we quickly revise the
the theorem of Pythagoras and I'm sure
you will remember that if you construct
the square on the x axis as I've drawn
it in this diagram in a square on
the y-axis we have areas of those
squares x squared + y squared from
simple geometry and then you'd construct
a square and the hypotenuse of the right
triangle then we find that x squared
plus y squared equals R star squared
well that's just the area of - trying to
two squares rather added together give
you the area of another Square and
usually in geometry in school the
squares are dropped off and we just say
x squared plus y squared equals R star
square or what if you want to give a
label to the hypotenuse of the right
triangle but this is the theorem of
Pythagoras but I ask you is asked well
let's consider this R star is not a new
dimension because it's composed of X's
and Y's so it's not a new dimension it's
not perpendicular to x and y it's a
function if you like of x and y it's
determined by x and y now we'll consider
a circle and we'll draw the circle
around the right triangle the right
triangle hasn't changed but now we can
reinterpret the length of the hypotenuse
of the right triangle as the radius of a
circle it goes through the end of the
hypotenuse where the hypotenuse is has
its origin at the origin of the
coordinates where x and y is 0 and again
by the theorem of Pythagoras because
it's a right triangle x squared plus y
squared equals R star square now you can
see why I label that R star because to
give you the idea it's also the radius
of a circle in this circumstance now is
the hypotenuse of the right triangle in
this instance perpendicular to X and y
know it's still the right triangle and
can x squared plus y squared minus r
squared equals 0
never B not equal to 0 this is the
important point we can see that it must
always be 0 because x squared plus y
squared equals R star squared so if you
subtract R star squared from each side
you must have 0 on the right side that's
always 0 unless of course you're a
cosmologist which I'll come to shortly
so X&Y stay perpendicular to one another
and even in this last equation x squared
plus y squared minus r star squared
equals zero
the R star is not perpendicular x and y
now let's go from the 2-dimensional to
the 3-dimensional this is a sphere again
our right triangle is present notice
that in this case by the theorem of
Pythagoras if you look in the xy-plane
there
x squared plus y squared equals R star
squared that's the same triangle we've
been talking about now if we go from the
tip of the hypotenuse and go into the Z
direction
the lengths are from the origin to the
surface of that sphere is R star squared
plus Z squared and we know what R star
squared is so we'll put that into the
equation and we get x squared plus y
squared plus Z squared equals R squared
again we've applied the theorem of
Pythagoras so the quantity R in
three-dimensional space is not
perpendicular to x y&z either and again
if we take R star R squared from both
sides of this equation I get x squared
plus y squared plus Z squared minus R
squared equals not can it ever be
anything other than that of course it
cannot again unless you're a cosmologist
which I will show you shortly so but
before I go to that interesting point
let's revise what we know about speed
what do we define a speed it's the
distance that something moves in a
certain time and we take the ratio of
the distance the time that gives you a
speed so in the case of the hypotenuse
of that right triangle in the sphere
that I drew in three dimensions the
distance from one point to the other
point or the from between the two ends
of it is the square root of x squared
plus y squared plus R squared because
sorry x squared plus y squared plus Z
squared because R squared is the square
of the distance so the length of the
hypotenuse is not R squared that's the
that's the area of the square that we
drew on it so the length of the side of
the square is R so we take the distance
x squared plus y squared plus R squared
said sorry I'll say that again x squared
plus y square plus Z squared take the
square root of it that's the distance we
divided by time and that can give us a
speed in again whether we use if we use
that the distance that for instance that
light travels some distance and the time
that light travels that distance and we
take the ratio of that we have the speed
of light just as though you had the
speed of a truck if a truck goes from A
to B and it travels it that distance in
a certain time T well you can calculate
its speed what's the same with light
instead of the speed of the truck we put
in the speed of the of light so we
conclude from this that for so that
neither VT nor CT now VT is a distance
so if I say to gyro traveling at 60
miles an hour for one hour how far did
you go well you take the speed you
multiply it by the time and you get the
distance you know it's simple instance
it's 60 miles per hour times one hour
the hours cancel out you've got 60 miles
so VT and CT is not an independent
fourth length dimension
it's just how long did it take to travel
along the hypotenuse of a right triangle
unless you're a cosmologists because the
space-time concept associated with
Einstein and Minkowski it was actually
introduced by Minkowski in 1907 and
enthusiastically adopted by Einstein and
all his followers ever since so now
you've got a four-dimensional space-time
continuum that just has curvature so
space-time requires CT to be in an
independent fourth length dimension
because C times T that's a distance now
we can add that distance to other things
if you have a distance you can add it to
distances this is how time is snuck in
to an equation two jumbled up space and
time and give you the idea of space-time
well it's not it's just some
kind of space with all length dimensions
so mathematically treating C times T or
V times T is the speed of a truck times
the time had traveled does not make it
but mathematically treating it as such
does not make it so and does not make T
an independant for that length dimension
C T is not 1/4 length I mentioned V T is
not a for think I mentioned and T on its
own they can't even be a length so we
going to go to the truck that I was
talking about let's consider a truck
moving along the hypotenuse of the right
triangle form A to C now there are two
ways you could get the right from A to C
you could go along the x-axis at some
speed you can go then along the y-axis
at some speed and you get there but the
shortest distance of course is along the
hypotenuse as we know from elementary
geometry so let's have a look at this a
truck has a constant speed along R star
is V in time T it travels from A to C
along this hypotenuse of a right
triangle then the theorem of Pythagoras
applies and we say R star squared is
equal to V times T squared and that's
equal to x squared plus y squared and
that means that V times T is equal to
the square root of x squared plus y
squared that's the length of the
hypotenuse of a right triangle and still
our star equals V times T is not a new
dimension and it's not orthogonal to X
and Y so we write the equation of this
right triangle as x squared plus y
squared equals V squared T squared well
recall we could draw a circle around
that and that would make it the radius
of a circle and if we subtract V squared
T squared from both sides we still get x
squared plus y squared minus V squared T
squared equals 0
can it ever be other than naught well
it's the right triangle the answer is it
cannot again unless you're a
cosmologists so now we'll go to the
three dimensional analog because it's
actually the same diagram except of draw
or a spheric sphere around the right
triangle and everything else applies in
the same way as we did with the right
triangle in the sphere before so instead
of our
we're well a truck travels from ADA to D
at some speed V and so the distance
along there is V times T and the x
squared plus y squared plus Z squared
equals V times T or squared well as we
had before x squared plus y squared was
equal to R star square or V Star V
squared T squared that was the equation
also of a circle so the equation for the
length of the hypotenuse of the right
triangle also gives us the radius of the
equation for a circle here we have the
length of the hypotenuse is also giving
us the equation for a sphere so right
triangles are very important and again
we can write x squared plus y squared
plus Z squared minus V squared T squared
equals naught it's always annoyed and
it's not orthogonal to x y&z unless
you're a cosmologists so we see that
space time is not a 4d continuum let's
replace the truck that was moving along
from A to D by a light rain everything
is exactly the same as before except now
the speed is not the speed of a truck
it's the speed of light so the trucks
not going from A to D a light ray is
going from A to D does anything else
change not at all and so now we come to
what the cosmologists do following
Minkowski and Einstein so for the right
triangle x squared plus y squared plus Z
squared minus C squared T squared equals
0 always so it can never be not equal to
0 and it can never be orthogonal to x
y&z it's always the right that's always
the hypotenuse of a right triangle so if
you take away the sides of the triangle
and just leave the radius line does it
change anything no it doesn't it's still
the hypotenuse of a right triangle but
we don't have the right triangle there
anymore and with the right triangle
disappeared magic is done because
cosmologists write x squared
y squared plus Z squared minus C squared
T squared equals s squared it's not
equal to know it and equal to know it is
a special case according to them
according to Albert Einstein and Hermann
Minkowski but this is clearly a
violation of elementary geometry all
right now
the fundamental reason why they start
writing this their squared not equal to
zero is because they mix it up
incorrectly with what's called
Riemannian geometry but if you want to
have a four-dimensional space in pure
mathematics you have to have four
independent quantities well x y&z as we
see by looking up at say the corner of
one of these roots corners in this room
you'll have x y&z they're independent of
one another but we see that the speed
between any points in that space is not
independent because you need the XYZ and
Zed's and the time to be able to
calculate the speed so it's not
independent the speed is not independent
if I multiply speed by time the very
same time I use to calculate the speed
that's not independent either because
it's the length of a right or the
hypotenuse of a right triangle so to do
four-dimensional mathematics you need
four independent quantities well C times
T is not an independent quantity
treating it as an independent quantity
by saying well we'll make it equal to s
squared not equal no it doesn't make it
true
it means you made a mistake the length C
T well what is it what its units or
rather what is its dimension its speed
times time so speed is length divided by
time and then we multiply that by time
well T cancels out ones in the numerator
ones in the denominator and we're left
with length obviously so just because
you've got lengths out of some quantity
doesn't mean that you've got a new
dimension for instance if I multiply X
by Y I get length squared and if I
divide it by Z I get length squared
divided by length that gives me length
is X Y over zero
you dimension not at all similarly with
X square x squared over y or x squared
plus y squared well x squared plus y
squared still has the units of length
squared or the dimensions of length
squared so if you had meters squared
plus meters squared you still got meter
square or if you got length squared plus
length squared you're still at length
squared because it's not a change in any
unit and if you divide length squared by
length for instance x squared plus y
squared Y divided by said you get length
did I just make a new fourth independent
dimension orthogonal to the x y&z not at
all and finally if I take x squared plus
y square plus Z squared and divided by X
or Y or Zed I still get the dimensions
of length but I did not create a new
dimension it's not a new dimension
that's not orthogonal to x y&z unless
you're a cosmologists I know it's a bit
of a tiring refrain but we need to
remind ourselves what because ma leaders
do so we never lose lose track of that
so I ask you now if I have XY over Z is
that the length of anything
what is it the length of we've got our x
y&z coordinates I take XY and I divide
it by said what's that the length of
it's not in the length of anything it
has dimensions of length there's a
formal mathematical relationship but
what is that what is it the length of
it's not certainly not the length of a
hypotenuse of a right triangle then it's
not the length of X or a wire it's just
some combination of X Y Z and says to
produce length but it's not a new
dimension and it's not orthogonal to
anything of those or those new
dimensions it's just nothing it's not
the length of anything and is it
perpendicular to the XY z-- and Zed's
well no so it's neither perpendicular to
anything and it's not the length of
anything even though it has the units of
or the dimensions of length and it's
made up of the XY z-- and Zed's
so combinations of XYZ and says don't
give us new dimensions so we come now to
Einstein's fantastic clocks now will
bear in mind the things that I've
covered here when when we get to
space-time it's
off but before we do that we want to
talk about I like to talk about
Einsteins fantastic clocks and in his
famous 1900 and what five paper Einstein
defined time by means of these fantastic
clocks that he concocted I'll read to
you what comes from his 1905 paper the
so called seminal work to turn physics
into a completely new paradigm that
changed our conception of space and time
well it ruined our conceptions of space
and time by turning it from from physics
into a Fantasyland here's where Einstein
says thus with the help of certain
imaginary physical experiments we have
settled what is to be understood by
synchronous stationary clocks located at
different places and have evidently dub
tained the definition of simultaneous or
synchronous and of time the time of
event is that which has given similar
tennis with you with the event by a
stationary clock located at the place of
the event this clock being synchronous
and indeed synchronous for all time
determinations with a specified
stationary clock well if you can make
sense of that you know it's that would
be a miracle but you know let's see now
there are a number of points I want to
make about this the first thing is he
wants systems of stationary observers
holding clocks that can all be
synchronized in other words they all
read the same time so he wants systems
of clocks synchronized stationary
observers that's what he's saying there
the other thing is he says he defines
time well I'll ask you something do
clocks define time do they did find time
clocks no more define time than a
pressure gauge defines pressure a
speedometer defines speed a thermometer
of the fine speed or a spring defines
gravity because if time is defined by a
clock wall all those other things must
be defined by the measuring instruments
but measuring instruments a measure are
they were invented to do what to measure
something other than themselves if a
measuring
instrument measures only itself it's
pretty hopeless
Einstein's clocks measure only
themselves
he has dispensed with physics something
external to the measuring instrument and
defines time in terms of his clock now
he's fantastic clock can do whatever it
likes independent of any physical
reality and there boy
warp stuff let's have a look at how he
sets up clock synchronizations we're in
from Einstein so there's no doubt we
have so far defined only in a time in a
B time he's got I'm T a time at a time
in right oh we have not determined a
common time for a and B this is where he
wants to get he synchronizing clocks
right for the ladder cannot be defined
at all unless we established by
definition that the time required by
light to travel from A to B equals the
time it requires to travel from beat
away you go from A to B then you travel
from beat away at the same speed well it
should take the same time let our light
little ray of light start at the
direction of a and arrive again at a at
the a time T primed a in accordance with
the definition the two clocks
synchronized if TB minus ta equals T
prime de minus TB in other words if you
go from A to B and you go and it takes a
certain time you go from beat away at a
certain time traveling at the speed of
light they must read the same times
that's his way of setting up clocks in
that little diagram you go from a you go
to B then you go from B backed away and
you see that at a you start at TA you
get the T you get at B you get TB and
then when you get back to a you're at t
prime day now he goes through as you see
a great pains to define what he means by
clock synchronization this is only part
of it this is the part that I wanted to
talk about
now to emphasize again his systems of
observers what do we see from his
earlier statements he wants systems of
clocks synchronized stationary observers
okay that means everybody in this room
who's sitting there you're not moving
anywhere and you're all holding a clock
and we want to make sure all your clocks
are synchronized so that everybody says
yes I've got the same time even though
you're in different places well that's
reasonable we want that experience tells
us that's what we need
Weinstein says let the time T of the
stationary system now he's got a system
of stationary observers and they're all
got the same time so he's got now let
the time - of the stationary system be
determined for all points thereof at
which there are clocks by means of light
signals in the men are indicated in
section one that's his elaboration on
how he's going to synchronize his clocks
send the light ray from A to B everybody
comes back we have this relationship and
that's it similarly let the time tour of
the moving system so he's got first a
system of stationary observers and with
all their clocks and then he's got
another system over here ones t and ones
tour for their times so he's got now
okay he says here where we are I've got
my place I'll go epic and read anyway
similarly let the time tour of the
moving system be determined for all
points of the moving system at which
there are clocks at rest relatively to
that system by adopting the method given
in section one of light signals between
the points at which the latter clocks
are located - any system of values X Y Z
and T yes one system which completely
defines the place and time I'd event in
the stationary system Einstein calls
that a stationary system there belongs a
system of values see e de xira
int or determining that event relatively
to the system K so if we have x y&z
associated with a system big K and the
Greek letters and for the system little
K his big case systems moving and his
little K or his big day system a
stationary in his little K system is
moving
but according to him you can switch it
around the little system guy could be
stationed here and the other one could
be moving because it's only relative
motion now however as we know how to
judge whether two or more clocks show
the same time simultaneously and run in
the same way we can very well imagine as
many clocks as we like in a given CS CSS
coordinate system each of them will help
us to determine the time and events
happening in its immediate vicinity the
clocks are all at rest relative to the
coordinate system they are good clocks
what is a good clock maybe they were
made by the Swiss they make good clocks
and synchronized which means that they
show the same time simultaneously well
this is all of this long-winded stuff it
says you're all sitting in the room and
you've all got a clock where you're
going to watch that's a clock and you've
all got them synchronized so you read
the same time that's all it means all of
this just means that but you've got two
systems so there's another set of people
in another room the same size as this
they call their clocks readings tour you
call your clock readings too
they call their positions see either and
in Zita and you call it x y&z that's all
so now we have his systems Einstein
systems have observers there are two
systems all having the properties we
just spoke of big guy and little code
Einstein likes to keep his little K the
moving system and he's big K the
stationary system but as I said you can
switch it around it doesn't matter so in
the left-hand diagram K and K there's no
motion between these two systems of
stationary clocks synchronized observers
and in the other two they are moving
well Einstein keeps the K capital K as
his stationary system and he says that
the little K is the moving one well if
it's moving to the right in the middle
one K is moving to the right with
respect to K big K and on the other
final diagram
little k system the whole system is
moving along to the left at some speed V
well that's minus V according to K
because it's in the opposite direction
and Einstein systems of observers K and
K are both clocks synchronized and
stationary within their systems right
they are not clock synchronized and
stationary with respect to the one
another those those systems because one
systems moving with respect to the other
ones so it's not stationary but if
you're in one of those systems all your
points are stationary and all your
clocks are synchronized so if you're the
one in little K and I'm the one in big K
or my clocks are synchronized and all
the points on the x axis are all
stationary and in your system all your
clocks on the z axis are stationary and
all your x tour are synchronized
Einsteins systems of clocks synchronized
stationary observers are now an
essential feature of special relativity
he holds that the Lorentz transformation
associates coordinates X Y Z T of a
stationary system K yeah we'll look at
the bottom the system of observers
they're all stationary and they're all
reading the same time with the
coordinates see either Zeta and tour of
the moving system that's the little
system little K system at the top so the
little K system is moving producing time
dilation and length contraction a system
of clocks synchronized stationary
observers little K when at rest is not
clock synchronized
when they are all moving together or all
move together with respect to a clock
synchronized stationary system okay so
in other words if you're in the case
sister the big case system where all
your clocks are reading the same time
and you look at the clocks as they all
pass you held by other stationary
systems in their system it all goes
haywire all the clocks are all reading
different things so it becomes
mind-boggling
so now we're going to look at the
Lorentz transformation the Rhenish
transformation is on the left this was
first introduced by Valdemar void in
1887 he didn't have the term bead oh
that's the only difference
the beter term which is one over the
square root of one minus V squared over
C squared this term did not occur or did
not appear in Voight's transformation so
if you take beter out you have voids
transformation subsequently Poincare the
French mathematician Lorentz the Dutch
physicist and Einstein they adopted
Lorentz transformation modified by this
effectively constant beta because V is
moving or the value of V is a constant
it's the Russian ship between the two
moving systems is such that the speed
views are constant that means beta will
be a constant for any given value of V
will see is fixed because the speed of
light so V over C and V squared over C
squared that's some constant and we have
a constant beta now let's eliminate from
the from the X from the equations for
the Greek ones a little key T we
eliminate X so we solve this equation
here the second equation for x we get
the result and we stick it into the top
equation and we get tor is equal to T
over beta minus Z V over C squared it's
just a simple bit of algebra you could
do it but we won't bother with that the
details here is because you could do it
yourself and if T equals zero
tor equals zero so in other words if tor
is equal to t over beta that happens
when Z is zero because if you look at
the top equation sit z equal to 0 you
get tor is equal to t over beta and then
if tears nought torres naught so if
you've got Z equals naught then you're
gonna have T 2 as naught and toric
wasn't that's what Einstein wants to do
he wants to make sure that the two
origins coincide at the time Teague was
not as they go past one another but if
tick was not so a but if Teague was
naught
you can just put in Teague was not in
the top equation you get towards equal
to minus C the over C squared
professor Wolfgang Englehart wrote a
paper in 2016 late last year and where
he points this out and you see that well
tor now is a function of position Z
that's supposed to be the time of all
the clocks in the stationary system so
if torres if tears nought torque does
not necessarily know it which means that
since we're talking now here only about
the system itself all the coordinates in
the moving system itself all the
positions in that system have different
times right so that means einstein's
idea of having clocks synchronized
stationary systems actually fails
because he wants to have T equals naught
that toric was naught but if we make T
equals not we don't necessarily get
toric was not why because you also have
to specify that Z was not but that's the
position in the moving system so you see
that the idea of having clock
synchronization in the moving system
fails because in that instance as
Engelhard has pointed out all the tours
are different depending on different
positions so we see by using the Trent
Lorentz transformation on the previous
slide Einstein's clock synchronization
doesn't hold
unless tore mystique was not and Zeke
was not well that's a special case
here's his logical error now when I read
Engle Hart's paper I could see
immediately that I could generalize it
because professor Englehart just had
Teague was naught I said well let's make
tor equal naught then we find for any
time T in the movie in the stationary
system there is always a place Z and the
moving system where the time is always
naught well that violates einstein's
idea thus for every T greater than
naught of the stationary system K there
exists the point Z greater than 0 in the
moving system little kaiware torres know
it but they're both supposedly starting
in offered zero and Counting well if
you're both counting you get bigger than
nought but here we show that you can
always find a place where it's still
nought but according to Einstein's clock
synchronization this must be impossible
Einstein's synchronization is
inconsistent inconsistent with the
Lorentz transformation this is a logical
inconsistency in the theory if you have
a physical theory that has logical
inconsistency is it valid no if you have
a physical theory that doesn't accord
with the experiment is that valid no so
there are two things that a physical
theory must have it must have logical
consistency and accord with experimental
reality if it files on either one of
those it files absolutely well here's a
logical problem it gets worse this is
just the key to the door so we see that
by instance clock synchronization is
inconsistent with the Lorentz
transformation but he wants to make
everything consistent with the lens
transformation he didn't let's have a
look at a systems of stationary observer
so I ask a question
our systems of stationary observers
satisfying the Lorentz transformation
clock synchronized in other words if I
set up a system of stationary observers
I make them satisfy the Lorentz
transformation must they necessarily
come out to be clock synchronized as
Einstein wants them the answer well
that's been the answer is no because we
just proved that in the previous two
slides now we can construct some counter
examples let's construct a system of
stationary observers which means that
they don't change with time all the X's
are not dependent on time they're
stationary I'll take a real number Sigma
and I'll put a subscript on an X and
I'll say X sub Sigma equals Sigma X sub
1 X sub 1 greater than naught so if I
give you an X sub 1 and you have the
Sigma which is a real number you can say
X sub 1 is located here on the x axis
and all the others are now specified
immediately by some value of Sigma that
you can put in because Sigma is a real
number so we have a system now of
observers that we have labeled each one
of them and so we can refer to each one
of them as
what they see as opposed to just calling
it X and never knowing which one we're
talking about it which is what Einstein
does each observe a Sigma at position X
sub sigma reads its own clock time T sub
Sigma so X sub 1 you see there X sub
Sigma they're located on the x axis and
they're stationary so if we use X of
Sigma equals Sigma X sub 1 and the first
equation of the Lorentz transformation
which was three or four slides ago and
we stick it in there is only one way we
can ensure that we get consistency that
our inch transformation and we get this
equation for the times t sub sigma
equals t1 plus sigma minus 1 3 x 1 over
c-squared if I put Sigma equals 1 what
do I get T sub Sigma equals T sub 1
that's one case if any other value of
Sigma the times are not the same in
other words if they are systems of
stationary observers that satisfy the
Lorentz transformation they cannot be
clocked synchronized here's an equation
that I derived in a paper that I write
but I have just given you the result
rather than a derivation if you put
Sigma X up Sigma equals Sigma X sub 1
and in T sub Sigma into the second
equation of the Lorentz transformation
that we saw earlier slide we get this
complicated looking expression and again
if we make Sigma equals 1 in that bottom
sight equation Sigma equals 1 then we
get 1 minus V squared over C squared
plus V squared over C squared that's
just 1 and that produces X 1 minus V a t
1 multiplied by beta that's exactly the
Lorentz transformation in one particular
case Einsteins case so we'll draw up
here real graph here a little table of
things we've got Sigma on the Left
various values you can put any values
you like I've put in a few except Sigma
T sub Sigma Z sub Sigma and tour
what will you see tour comes out to be
the same but that's not synchronized in
the moving
system that's what the stationary system
sees when it looks at the moving system
the moving systems going past it looks
at the system and says well all those
clocks are in sync but all the clocks in
my system or your system that's watching
it are not in sync a copy clock
synchronized now it can revert it
because it's symmetric in the other
system where you looking at the clocks
they're all sync if you're in that
system looking at this system you say
well all my clocks are not sync but the
ones in the other one that's moving past
me are in sync well that's completely
opposite the Einsteins remember the
diagram all the ones on the bottom were
all in sync and the ones that were
moving past all right I think here we
got the opposite so this is the
stationary Lorentz transformation in
other words this is a system of
equations that is that's is for
stationary systems of observers that
satisfy the Lorentz transformation you
can see here that the time cannot be
synchronized but if I make Sigma equals
one everything reduces to the simple
expressions that we started with so I
said here setting Sigma equals one in
the stationary Lorentz transformation
the Lorentz transformation used by
Einstein is recovered however a system s
that contains only one observer cannot
by its singular character synchronize
its costs with anything or Judge Samuel
taneous of ncns Einstein incorrectly
permitted his privileged observer Sigma
equals 1 to speak for all observers
thereby violating the fundamental tenets
of his theory that no observer is
privileged in other words he had a
tested assumption that he could
construct systems of clocks synchronized
stationary observers with the Lorentz
transformation we see that it's only a
true in one sort of in one case Sigma
equals one but in that case it's the
only one in the whole system there are
though others in the system
can it synchronize with anything no
there's only one clock in the system
itself can it measure distances no
because it's only one point it's like
taking the point out of the whole x axis
and looking at the point itself the
other XS the rest of it has disappeared
so it can't measure this
or anything and it can't be privileged
because Einstein requires that they're
not privileged that's why once whole
systems of clocks synchronized
stationary observers no ones privileged
this is the inverse transformation I
just put it there for content now we
look at clocks synchronized systems so I
asked the second question our systems of
clocks synchronized observers satisfying
the Lorentz transformation stationary
the answer is no we can construct
counter examples here by we making
taking the Lorentz transformations and
we insist that all the clocks in the
capital K system read the same time T so
that's on the left and the only way to
do that is using the kawrench
transformation is by setting that
equation up then we ensure that every
clock in the in one system is
synchronized so they read the same time
can they be stationary well we see here
that when we solve it all we get for X
sub Sigma there are all functions of
over time X sub Sigma equals 1 minus
Sigma C squared T over V plus Sigma X 1
where X 1 is greater than 0 but
arbitrary now we see that X sub Sigma is
a function of time that means it's not
stationary
so although observe all observers in K
o'clock synchronized through a common
time T only x1 is not a function of the
time T if I put Sigma equals 1 in I get
X sub 1 is equal to x1 that's not a
function of time
that's Einstein's privileged observer 1
in a set of how many well they're
infinite sets so he has one element out
of an infinite set not the infinite set
and he takes that one element and allows
it to speak for the whole infinite set
of observers that's wrong here we see
counter examples here's their orange
transformation for clocks synchronized
observers notice that Sigma can only
have limited values it's not a it's not
the whole set of real numbers it's only
one minus V over C is less than Sigma is
less than 1 plus V over C and if V is
nought we get 1 is less than Sigma is
less than 1 that just means it's 1
Einstein's observer again so if we set
Sigma equals one in the clock
synchronised system we recover the
Lorentz transformation used by Einstein
it's a privileged observer he's not
allowed to have that because he says we
don't have privileged observers it
pertains to only one observer in system
K and one observing system K the little
K by tacitly assuming systems of clocks
synchronized stationary observers
consistent with the Lorentz
transformation Einstein incorrectly
permitted he's privileged observer Sigma
equals one to speak for all observers
thereby violating the fundamental tenets
of his theory that no observer is
privileged this is the set of equations
for the inverse clock synchronize
Lorentz transformation they're going for
content now Lorentz invariance according
to the cosmologists in Einstein and
Minkowski remember when we did the right
the right triangles in this end in the
spheres and we had x squared plus y
squared minus s squared plus said
squared minus C squared T squared equals
zero well Einstein requires that no
matter how the systems are moving they
all must come out with exactly the same
equation the only change being the
symbols any cause this well this is
called Lorentz invariance so they
require this top equation so when you
change from the XYZ and T to the Greek
ones for the moving system you get the
same equation well we remember that
that's always at naught cosmologists
think that that's not always not so but
by the Lorentz transformation we have x
and y not sorry y&z don't appear there
zero because everything's moving along
the x axis so we can make that zero and
we can therefore reduce the equation to
a simpler one x squared minus C squared
T squared is equal to the C squared
minus C squared 2 squared but if we
substitute now the findings of the
previous slides for the stationary
system we get this complicated
expression and this is true for all
values of Sigma so
Lorentz invariance is maintained by the
counter examples that I've constructed
well we expect that because I
constructed it using the Lorentz
transformation so we would expect that
they have a Lorentz transparent
invariance that satisfies Einstein's
requirement but again this is not a
single this is not a single observer
it's many observers infinite set now
here's the same relationship for the
clock synchronized
Lorentz transformation and we get that
expression I'll go back to the other one
there is that expression for this and
there's the expression for this system
and again we see when you put the nut
put all the things in there you get
Lorentz invariants the only change in
the equation is the symbols that's what
he wants so the counter examples satisfy
that condition now we compare the
observers let's take the the stationary
Lorentz transformation relation that
before in equator to the clock
synchronized
Lorentz transformation they're not the
same unless Sigma equals 1 so if I put
in Sigma equals 1 this becomes an
identity because in any other case
they're not equal they satisfy the renze
invariance individually but when they're
equated they only hold when Sigma equals
1 that's Einstein's privileged observer
which he allows to speak for all
elements of the infinite set of
observers that's his mistake
so Einstein system of clocks
synchronized stationary observers holds
holds for only one observer no other
observers are equivalent thus Einsteins
tacit assumption is false in the special
theory of relativity is false here's a
wave equation this is a simple wave
equation sine wave this is a little bit
more complicated because we now we have
a differential equation the wave
equation the standard wave equation
electrical engineers I'm sure are
familiar with this because it's related
to electromagnetic radiation so if you
have a wave polarized in the Y Direction
traveling in the X direction with speed
C this equation describes it it's called
the standard wave equation right this is
a one-dimensional wave equation as
opposed to a three-dimensional wave
so I don't expect you all to understand
that but the point of it is we have a
nice little sine wave here
that's a wave equation it's a plane wave
so now special relativity requires the
wave equation to be invariant under the
Lorentz transformation in other words
the equation when you put in the Lorentz
transformation on the left hand side
equation you get the right-hand side
it's exactly the same equation except
that you've just changed the symbols so
now the standard wave equation becomes
invariant between moving systems systems
that are in constant rectilinear motion
this is what Voigt wanted to do in 1887
for reasons that are only known to avoid
because it doesn't make sense so using
the standard or using the stationary
Lorenz transformation I take the counter
examples that I've constructed and I put
it into the standard wave equation and I
get the thing on the right
this is invariant only when Sigma equals
1 again Einsteins privileged observer if
you put one in there you see comes out
to be the standard wave equation
otherwise it is not so the idea that the
Lorentz transformation makes the
standard wave equation invariant under
its transformation is patently false
Voight was wrong and hence pancamo was
wrong Lorentz is wrong and Einstein
wrong but this is central to special
relativity without at all special
relativity is a dead duck here now I'll
use the clocks synchronized Lorentz
transformations we get exactly the same
equations again Sigma equals 1 is the
only one that makes it invariant that's
Einstein's privileged observer he
doesn't know that what he's done he
takes this privileged observer and he
lets it speak for all of them so now he
thinks he's got clock synchronized
systems of stationary observers when he
doesn't he only has one and one is
meaningless so we compare the wave
equations they are the same
only when Sigma equals one comparison of
positions and times they are the same
only when Sigma equals one so we now
conclude systems of clocks synchronized
stationary observers are inconsistent
with the Lorentz transformation
Einstein's theory of relativity is
therefore logically inconsistent it is
therefore force and the Lorentz
transformation is meaningless because it
does not matter it does not do what it
says or already claims that it can do it
does not and so that concludes my rather
technical discussion proving that the
special theory of relativity is a fairy
tale thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
