today individuals who wish to learn
about unconventional or unpopular
theories
face an enormous obstacle before
determining the theories validity one
must first gain an accurate
understanding of what the theory
actually proposes for individuals
seeking to learn about the electric
universe this task is remarkably
difficult due to rampant
misrepresentations of the theory both by
uninformed or sensational would-be
proponents and critics of the theory
alike a surprisingly prevalent tactic
against the electric universe is the
characterization of its proponents as
quote conspiracy theorists let us lay
aside for the moment the question of the
prevalence of actual quote conspiracies
both throughout history and in the world
today let us explore instead why is this
accusation made specifically against
proponents of the electric universe I
want to talk today about why it is that
people who believe that there is some
problem with scientific theory are
frequently labeled online as conspiracy
theorists what this talk is not about
are people who actually talk about
conspiracies I'm specifically referring
to the situation where one person is
talking about science and the other
person is calling that first a
conspiracy theorist this happens enough
online that it demands some sort of an
explanation I would argue that this
practice is enormous ly destructive to
society's ability to talk about
lesser-known innovative ideas in science
if every time that people want to talk
about an idea in science which diverges
from the textbook theory there is this
societal reaction to isolate and label
that activity is something it is not
even intended to be I think there needs
to be a very strong reaction to this
subtly destructive behavior Michael as
you very well know plasma cosmology is a
topic that has been published in I trip
believes transactions on plasma science
for many years now in a sense it is
classical science insofar as the
theorists have traditionally sought out
inferences for astronomical observations
which pertain to classical physics
principles electricity magnetism plasmas
double layers and so on in the
methodology itself is really quite
scientific
insofar as observations within plasma
laboratories like tokamaks of
filamentary electrical structures have
inspired theorists to suggest that
cosmic plasma behaves in similar ways
it's a perfect example really of what is
meant by empirical science so why is it
that when people refer to the electric
universe are more more appropriately
plasma cosmology online these people are
commonly labeled as conspiracy theorists
the fact of the matter is that there
isn't a trace of conspiracy within the
thunderbolts groups publications these
theorists are talking about plasma
science astrophysics and cosmology and
their thesis is that academic
institutions should be modeling the
cosmic plasma to better match our
observations of laboratory plasmas there
should be no confusion that there are
mistakes in the textbooks right now and
history is just littered with
spectacular examples of mistake and
expertise and Michael they all have
something important in common try to see
if you can pick up on what I'm referring
to as I run through four significant
examples number one when radio waves
were first observed coming from space by
radio engineers the astronomical
community assumed it was either a
mistake or a hoax second when the maser
the lasers microwave precursor was
invented the world's most prestigious
quantum theorists claim that the
prototype which was already created was
impossible due to the Heisenberg
uncertainty principle third it wasn't
that long ago that the scientific
community regarded meteorites in the
same way that modern scientists regard
UFO abductions and psychic phenomena
quaint superstitions only believed by
peasant folk and fourth rocket-powered
spacecrafts were ridiculed virtually all
the way up until 1944 when they started
raining down on London during World War
two the common aspect that people tend
to miss with these stories is not the
simple fact that the entire scientific
community was wrong I think the most
people generally understand that this is
happened
the key aspect to realize is that the
scientific community does not today
strive to teach these stories as less
which students of science and the public
can learn from on the nature of
scientific consensus and so they're
evolved zapper dicta bollec perception
that these kinds of fundamental mistakes
are rare in our modern times one a quote
bill Beatty
he says intellectual suppression has a
long history involving an eccentric but
revolutionary science throughout the
history of science famous researchers
who eventually created an entire new
fields of science initially found it
nearly impossible to publish their
research some didn't succeed for years
even decades the scientific community
ignored them but eventually they were
heard
eventually they conquered the
suppression but only after a major fight
the journal editors rejected their
papers because the new research results
were in conflict with common knowledge
it was too eccentric yet the eccentric
ideas were right and common knowledge
was not skipping ahead note well that
nobody can inspire to silence these
revolutionary researchers editors and
fellow scientists simply assume that the
eccentric papers were misguided so that
is the vital context for the question
that I want to pose if we don't need
conspiracies to explain like experts and
textbooks have even in modern times been
wrong then why do people commonly
conflate those who disagree with
textbook scientific theory with
conspiracy theorists here is my
unexpected answer to this tricky
question the story more or less starts
with Edward Bernays the relative of
Sigmund Freud who showed American
corporations for the first time how they
could make people want things they
didn't need by linking mass-produced
goods to their unconscious desires
quoting Pat Jackson Rene's colleague and
public relations adviser what Eddie got
from Freud was indeed this idea that
there is a lot more going on in human
decision-making not only among
individuals but even more importantly
among groups than this idea that
information drives behavior
so Eddie began to formulate this idea
you had to look at things that will play
to people's irrational emotions so where
am I going with this
the point is that here in the United
States we are already accustomed and
actively encouraged to behave
irrationally all the time it's just an
aspect of how businesses sell things
so given this history which clearly has
nothing at all to do with a conspiracy
here's what people need to ask
themselves does this subconscious aspect
of the mind simply shut up when the
subject switches to science or
alternatively can we think of this ideal
of thinking like a scientist in part as
a process of keeping these natural
subconscious tendencies in check
fast-forward more than half a century to
2002 when Daniel Kahneman was awarded
the Nobel for taking Bernays ideas to
the next level for many years the
practice of marketing weather for a
product or an idea was considered a sort
of fluffy black magic by CEOs and others
because it lacked an actual model for
what what was happening in the mind in
regards to human decision-making that
all changed with Kahneman's
contributions to decision science whose
work has come to affect all of the
social sciences my own suggestion will
will be to propose that Kahneman's work
can naturally explain this conspiracy
theorist labeling and the implications
are enormous if I'm right for the way we
talk about science online because it
ultimately points the way to how we
might design Future Sight social
networks that aim to make online
discourse more scientific Kahneman's
claim is that when a person encounters
complexity they will either consciously
or implicitly realize they lack both the
time and inclination to research this
claim if he's right then that
realization arrives as a feeling which
makes it faster than any rational
thought and therefore our initial
reaction that feeling then Prime's
whatever rational thought that follows
the subconscious is a natural reaction
to everything that happens to us based
upon the patterns we've formerly
experienced
the key is to realize that you don't
intentionally think it it happens to you
this process more formally known as
associative coherence appears to the
rational thinker as believable
narratives as probably most adults would
acknowledge these seemingly fully formed
ideas just pop into our heads
the thing about associative coherence
that is not widely understood by the
public is that it benefits from a lack
of detail as details are added in what
happens more often than not is that the
believable narrative turns out to be
wrong so what I see a lot of online is
that people have formed a system of
beliefs about science which they
subconsciously use as a filter to limit
the effort of rational thought and this
is a natural response to information
overload these largely sub conscious
decisions to refuse to learn about
something can create significant
ignorant of that particular thing and
this can happen even if the person is
extraordinarily intelligent in other
aspects or activities much of the news
media by the way actively encourages and
reinforces this filtering behavior so
here is the important bit this empty
cognitive space becomes a playground for
associative coherence people who have
not actively sought to teach themselves
about certain things in science must
fall back onto these far simpler
patterning based processes for
evaluating claims about those things my
own personal observations online
confirms for me that Khan Amon is right
that this behavior is extremely common
even amongst academic researchers so
what I'm saying is that when a person
does not actively seek to develop a new
instance understanding of academic
research things like how it works the
limits of scientific methodology and
domains critiques by whistleblowers
critiques of peer review and historical
examples of failed expertise the people
who refuse to actively learn about these
things are more prone to simplistic
associations of those who disagree with
textbook theory - conspiracy theorists
I see it all the time people who label
others that are actually talking about
science as conspiracy theorists will
completely ignore the scientific
arguments being made and project their
own lack of understanding upon the very
person that is trying to educate them
about some innovative scientific idea as
Kahneman's model continues to
disseminate throughout our culture I
believe that it is just inevitable that
we will build communication systems
which help people to see their only
tendencies towards associative coherence
by exposing it in the others they are
talking - we cannot see in ourselves but
we can see it in others and in that
indirect way we can make online
scientific conversations more scientific
[Music]
[Music]
you
