welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info in the previous space news
physicist wal Thornhill discussed the
recent report that giant filamentary
networks pervade the Milky Way galaxy
and these filaments are quote closely
linked to the formation of stars we now
turn our attention to our own celestial
neighborhood and the electrical
connection between the earth and the Sun
it was more than a century ago that the
Norwegian experimentalist Kristian
Birkeland proposed that charged
particles from the Sun were the cause of
Earth's Aurora's for decades the
astronomical mainstream including the
renowned mathematician Sydney Chapman
dismissed and ridiculed berkland
hypothesis decades after his death
Berlin's thesis was proven correct yet
even today the significance of this
confirmation has yet to fully register
against a mountain of new evidence most
discussion of the earth-sun connection
still assumes that the Sun and the earth
are neutral bodies in space yet all that
we have learned in the Space Age and
confirmed through ever finer data defies
this assumption electric currents
flowing through the conductive medium of
plasma represent the electrical
circuitry between the Earth and the Sun
this circuitry is routinely evidenced in
science reports today from the 2007
discovery of so-called magnetic ropes
connecting the earth in the Sun and
driving Earth's Aurora's the 2014
discovery completely unexpected by
mainstream scientists that intense solar
activity causes increased lightning on
earth protons storms from coronal mass
ejections that sometimes reach the earth
in a matter of minutes and today a new
confirmation of the electrical
relationship between our planet and our
star an australian undergraduate student
is now being credited with having proven
the existence of so-called plasma ducks
or oddly shaped tubular plasma
structures above the earth the student
Cleo Loy says of these structures we
measure their position to be about 600
kilometers above the ground in the upper
ionosphere and they appear to be
continuing upwards into the plas
fear this is around where the neutral
atmosphere ends and we are transitioning
to the plasma of outer space we found
that the ionization patterns in the
ionosphere are quite structured they
flow in these tubular structures that
are aligned with the Earth's magnetic
field and they can move of their own
accord
while Thornhill discusses the
significance of this discovery for the
electric universe theory the second
report concerns the earth and the
discovery of electrons writing huge
plasma ducts above the earth the work
supported by the Center for all-sky
astrophysics sought to confirm
sixty-year-old theories about these
structures reading the original 1953
paper titled an investigation of
whistling atmospherics we find they are
thought to be due to waves which
originate in normal impulsive
atmospherics from lightning and travel
through the outer ionosphere following
the lines of force of the Earth's
magnetic field and crossing over the
equator at a great height during their
journey they become dispersed so as to
arrive as Whistler's measurements of the
degree of dispersion of the whistlers
have been interpreted to yield
information about the density of
electrons in the atmosphere at very
great heights the paper concludes and I
quote on the whole the evidence supports
the view that the ionization through
which the whistlers travel is of
extraterrestrial origin it must be
admitted however that the electron
densities required at great heights are
uncomfortably large and of quote this
conclusion accords with the electric
universe model of an electrical
connection between the earth and the
sun's circuit it is expected therefore
that electrical activity in the Earth's
atmosphere like lightning and higher in
the ionosphere is influenced by solar
activity notably the ionization has been
found to transition to the plasma of
outer space below the ionosphere the
conducting path for this external
electrical power includes the upward
lightning flashes called sprites and
cloud-to-ground lightning below the
clouds this supports the controversial
discovery in 2001 by Professor Edgar
Barry
a physicist at the University of Houston
in Texas who said the charge that
produces sprites is not below in the
cloud it's in the mesosphere itself in
July 1993 I said at a conference in
Cambridge England the principal
difficulty in understanding the origin
of lightning is likely to be the
assumption that the earth is a closed
electrical system with no input from the
solar plasma environment via the
magnetosphere this new report seems to
verify part of that circuit however once
again the report defers any real
understanding by referring to these
magnetic field aligned Burkle and
current cylinders simply as unexplained
plasma duct for continuous updates on
space news from the electric universe
stay tuned to Thunderbolts dot info
