and what point is when recognized that
history is unfolding before one's eyes
usually takes the benefit of hindsight
to appreciate and events historic
significance but once in a great while
we find ourselves caught in the momentum
of a watershed moment countless millions
of human beings alive today have
witnessed the collapse of the berlin
wall the end of the soviet union and
astonishing human achievements for man
walking on the moon to landing a
spacecraft on a comet but other
watershed moments may come and go with
no immediate recognition in our
collective consciousness in the
theoretical sciences some of the most
profound and innovative breakthroughs
have come from individuals who are far
from household names for some of these
theorists even as science discoveries
have confirmed their models the
significance of their work eludes
institutionalized science in the early
20th century the Norwegian
experimentalist Kristian Birkeland
hypothesized that charged particles from
the Sun were the cause of Earth's
Aurora's although the scientific
mainstream including the renowned
mathematician Sidney Chapman ridiculed
and dismissed Birkeland thesis several
decades after brooklyn's death he was
proven correct in 1970 the electrical
engineer and plasma physicist hottest
alphane received the Nobel Prize for his
work on magneto hydro dynamics in his
acceptance speech alphane decried the
astrophysical communities theories about
space plasmas he said it seems that
astrophysics is too important to be left
in the hands of theoretical
astrophysicists who have gotten her
education from the listed textbooks the
multi-billion dollar space data from
astronomical telescopes should be
treated by scientists who are familiar
with laboratory and magneto spheric
physics circuit theory and of course
modern plasma physics more than 99
percent of the universe consists of
plasma and the ratio between
electromagnetic and gravitational forces
is 10 to the 39th power today
instruments measuring data across the
entire electromagnetic spectrum have
confirmed the theoretical predictions of
electrical pioneers such as Birkeland
and alphane astonishing filamentary
structures per me
the Milky Way galaxy rope-like
structures called Birkeland currents
connect the Sun to the earth driving the
Aurora's and profoundly affecting
Earth's climate and weather dry and
rocky comets discharge electrically as
they plunge to the sun's electric field
planets discharge like comets jetting
material into their upper atmospheres
the disconnected and electrically inert
cosmos of mainstream astronomy has been
falsified yet it seems that both
institutionalized science and popular
media have yet to receive the memo
countless billions of dollars continue
to be spent in the futile attempt to
confirm a falsified cosmology scientists
and ability to find elusive dark matter
particles or gravitational waves has
done nothing to inhibit the astronomical
expenditures yet history has shown that
with no advance fanfare everything can
change virtually overnight the space
sciences may be on the cusp of a truly
watershed moment we at the thunderbolts
project are devoted to exploring the
electrical nature of the universe among
our chief principles are scientists
highly trained in the fields of
electrical engineering and plasma
physics and every year our relationships
with highly innovative scientists expand
further into a truly interdisciplinary
endeavor for more than a decade the
thunderbolts project has operated with
modest funding and primarily on the
efforts of volunteers even with these
modest resources we've produced for
feature-length documentary films all of
which are now available for free on the
thunderbolts project YouTube channel we
have created the ongoing video series
space news from the electric universe we
have developed scholarship programs that
enable students to attend our
international conferences at little
expense and now we present conferences
which attract an amazingly diverse
community of Inquirer's in growing
numbers every day we receive thanks and
encouragement from individuals who say
that the adventure of the electric
universe has transformed their lives
today we ask for your help to assist us
in improving and increasing or output on
the Thunderbolts YouTube channel
including more episodes of space news a
regular podcast and video presentations
on an increasingly diverse range of
topics
tribute errs can subscribe for any
amount with Rewards beginning at five
dollars a month depending on the
subscription amount our patrons will
receive monthly rewards ranging from
updates on the latest behind-the-scenes
developments with the thunderbolts
project to exclusive interviews with
members or colleagues of the
Thunderbolts team all contributions will
assist in our ongoing efforts to explore
and clarify the electric universe theory
around the bend or perhaps before our
eyes and too close to see a watershed
moment approaches together the electric
universe community may now have the
power not just to witness history but to
change
