welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info according to a new report the
latest data from the NASA space probe
Voyager 1 has left scientists without a
working model for the outer solar system
NASA scientists recently concluded that
Voyager 1 may have reached the outer
boundary of the solar system called the
heliopause
however the scientists were met with a
surprising discovery the solar winds
surrounding the spacecraft had come to
an inexplicable standstill this was a
surprise to scientists who had expected
the solar wind to be directed laterally
like water hitting a barrier
why is this discovery so surprising to
NASA scientists and how does this affect
our understanding of the Sun
the news came out that NASA's Voyager 1
indeed had gotten through the the
boundary of the solar plasma which most
people call the heliopause what they
discovered was that the wager was no
longer seeing any rapidly moving solar
wind particles the the particles that
they were observing had essentially died
out to almost zero and there's a very
interesting plot that they issued with
their news and I don't think there is
anything in the standard model that
would account for that they expected the
solar wind maybe to go reach into some
reaches some sort of a wall and then
divert change direction go off in a 90
degree angle or something but they
didn't expect it to just stop the
electric universe model predicts a
reversal of the sun's electric field as
a space probe approaches the
Heliospheric boundary this boundary acts
as a virtual cathode in relationship to
the Sun as the anode in a electrical
exchange the charged particles from the
Sun will not be deflected laterally as
the standard model predicted but the
solar wind will simply cease the e model
certainly predicts there to be an
electrical virtual cathode out there at
the in that neighborhood and the all of
the data that nASA has just released
this week absolutely confirms that I
mean they couldn't be more consistent
with what what our predictions have been
the electric universe model of the Sun
has been developed over many many years
is essentially that the what we are
living in is something very analogous to
almost akin to a plasma discharge that
has been done in plasma laboratories for
the better part of a century now with an
anode at one end and a cathode at the
other and you have certains
plasma structures in there like the
anode glow and the and the corona and so
on and that's exactly what we are seeing
the the standard model says no no this
is not electrical this is all having to
do with winds and pressures and
atomic energy and that sort of thing but
they really don't want to talk very much
about electrical processes and we do and
this latest data says that no I can't
put it any other way that the electrical
model is correct there indeed is an
electrical boundary out there consisting
of a wall of electrons which is what we
have been wall and I and several of us
have called a virtual cathode we've been
calling it that for years and I think it
turns out that we are we are correct if
the Sun is at the center of a
Heliospheric electric field many of the
sun's most puzzling features may now
have a coherent explanation this may
also explain why so many recent
discoveries have presented mysteries for
solar physicists one of the most
important ones because of a paper that
was published by a fella boy whose name
is Hana Shoji and he had two or three
cooperative workers and with him
essentially disproves the idea that
there can be a convection zone on the
Sun
the standard model of the Sun says
there's a there's a fusion reaction in
the middle and there's a radiation zone
where energy is radiated away from that
fusion zone and then after a while about
halfway out to the surface of the Sun
the energy becomes transported by the
convection process which is matter
moving in response to a temperature
gradient and Hannah soaky's
investigation absolutely says if mankind
has learned anything about fluid flow
over the last hundred years about
convection especially convection is not
possible in that area of the Sun so that
was a dagger through the heart of that
vampire I mean there is no way that that
standard model can can survive the if
Hannah Sookie and his colleagues are are
correct the other one is how round the
Sun is it's almost a perfect sphere and
if it were as the standard model
predicts it to be it should not be that
round the course they see it's always
been a problem for standard model is so
why does the Sun rotate so much more
rapidly at its equator than it does at
its poles one of the big problems seems
to me that has never really been
answered by the standard model is why
does the Sun have a corona at all why is
it there in the first place it serves no
useful function if the Sun is just a
fusion furnace I mean it's their their
model is if the Sun is like a big wood
stove except it isn't burning wood it's
burning hydrogen and turning it into
helium and so fine if that's the way it
is then what is that glowed we see out
there that electrical plasma discharge
that we call the Sun's corona why is it
there
for continuous updates on space news
from the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
