on the surface of today's most
well-studied comet we see fields of
rubble everywhere from great boulders
down to gravel sand and dust a surface
littered with debris but was not
supposed to be there is just to boldly
present why would an evaporating clump
of ice and dust look more like the
debris strewn surface of Mars than any
comet that scientists ever dared to
dream of the debris of 67p will force a
confrontation with fundamental
assumptions for proponents of the
electric comet this is an open
invitation to pose the unasked question
is there a logical evidence-based
connection of the 67p rubble field to
the origins of the comet as to its birth
as a comet it's only reasonable to see
the rubble field in such terms because
the tiny nuclei of comets are not
appreciable attractors the vast
emptiness of interplanetary or
interstellar space picking up just one
Boulder in a million years would be a
remarkable feat but those who have
explored the electric comet hypothesis
know quite well what the rubble field is
telling us the comet was born in intense
electrical exchanges between planets
when planets moved on vastly different
paths than they moved today within the
electric universe community researchers
have across several decades explored
pervasive evidence for planetary
instability and violent close approaches
of planets in the not so distant past
seen in electrical terms at it's very
birth 67p was immersed and debris from a
planetary surface even the nucleus
itself looks like a jumble of debris on
a large
scale what we see are massively
disordered and fractured blocks
constituted of rock and apparently no
ice at all along the towering cliffs of
67p we see the telltale signature of
geological strata of course that would
be one of the first things to look for
wants the idea of violent removal from a
planetary surface actually registers the
visible straight has seen so clearly on
separate fragments of 67p have no
consistent alignment with that of other
fragments by all indications massive
blocks of material some of it looking
very much like mountainous terrain were
removed from a rocky planet to form a
conglomerate on a grand scale and that's
what the electric comet hypothesis has
always maintained crustal material torn
from a planetary surface and intense
electrical exchanges between planets
with extreme selective heating and
significant electrical fusing of the
removed debris it's the planetary origin
of the comet that underpins our
prediction of a host of complex silicate
and clay materials that would not be
expected or even possible in the deep
freeze and vacuum of remote space such
materials would be common on the surface
of a rocky planet in particular a planet
in the habitable zone of the Sun that's
why we so eagerly await the reports on
ejected dust from 67p we expect the
presence of complex crystalline
structures not the rudimentary Stardust
of popular comet theory not the residue
of an imagined nebular cloud a billion
years ago but rather the residue of
planetary catastrophe recorded just a
few thousand years ago by humans on
earth
you
