well thank you once again for enduring
me I guess this is three times now
it is a privilege to talk and to have an
opportunity to address you about the Sun
I'd like to dedicate this talk to my
mother checking in and actually she
maybe like a lot of our mothers taught
me the most important lesson and we're
all trying to learn lessons here but the
lesson she taught me on her knee was to
love now when we consider the Sun
currently it's viewed as the gaseous
plasma and I'm going to advance that
from the photosphere down or - after
hearing David's talk last night from the
photosphere in I didn't hear the whole
talking force which is the part but from
the photosphere in the Sun is condensed
matter and in the corona and the
chromosphere you have a combination of
condensed matter and plasma now the
first proponent actually of the gaseous
Sun was Herbert Spencer he was a very
prominent evolutionist his works were
largely ignored by astronomers but he
got into quite a few little scuffles and
if you're interested in the history of
how the Sun became a gas the citation is
listed here but the real person who gave
us a gaseous Sun actually was father
Angelo secchi he was a just a
spectacular astronomer and if anybody
has the chance online you can see his
books lissa lay there in french and but
even if you can't read the French look
at the figures they're phenomenal
and also LV Fay so the Sun really became
a gas in the minds of these men in the
1960s and many prominent men of the
figure of the time in physics so we can
say that around 1965 is when the idea
that
son was a gas was really born now for
Herbert Spencer it wasn't fully a gas it
was a kind of a bubble was a gas inside
it was condensed matter outside for Fey
and secchi the Sun was a gas that had
floating solid particles on the
photosphere because they wanted to have
the thermal emission spectrum but what
happened with Fay is something quite
important it's here that the Sun lost
its surface so when you talk to an
astronomer they tell you well the Sun
doesn't have a real surface it's an
optical illusion and of course we can
use mathematics to justify that but the
idea actually goes all the way back to
LV Fay in an article he wrote a name
owned in 1865 which I translate here for
you so then the exterior surface of the
Sun which from far appears so perfectly
spherical is no longer a layered surface
in the mathematical sense of the word
the surfaces rigorously made up of
layers correspond to a state of
equilibrium that does not exist in the
Sun so surfaces do not exist in the Sun
this limit is in any case only apparent
so since in 19 1865 we've thought that
the Sun does not have a surface now
actually some observational astronomers
didn't agree with that and there were
arguments about the Sun did it have a
real surface or not you could find
papers into the 1900s until then there
were papers by Schuster Schwarzschild
and of course Eddington and the Sun then
became fully gaseous or been viewed
mathematically as fully gaseous and the
observational astronomers just lost that
biodome so today if you look at the
present model of the Sun we have a core
and in the core it's thought that all
the photons are produced and why do we
know that because of kirchoff's law of
course I just showed you that that is no
longer valid you cannot produce photons
in the core of the Sun and then we have
other layers of the radiation zone the
photons are leaving the core and they're
radiating out then we have convection
zone and eventually for the gaseous on
it takes millions of years so photons to
finally escaped here and give us an
emission spectrum now this can be
justified using Stefan's law the center
of the Sun being very very hot if you
say that the amount of photons that you
get moves with temperature to the fourth
and you really believe that the surface
here is at five thousand Kelvin and
that's temperature to the fourth you'll
see there's an enormous amount of
photons produced here so this has to be
considered enclosed and that's how they
felt that the Sun could follow
kirchoff's law that it could be
considered enclosed now the question for
us is does the Sun really have a surface
and there's so much evidence about it
and people have said it a long time ago
there's no question the Sun has a
surface and as soon as it has a surface
it cannot be a gas so we have prominent
prominences and coronal mass ejections
that can rise from the surface and come
crashing back down they represent real
structures and they are not optical
illusions so this is a little movie here
and you're going to see a coronal mass
ejection it comes back down and it
crashes onto the Sun and when it does
you see all these bright points lighting
up so this is a collision that's taking
place there is a boundary there it's not
just an optical boundary it's a real
boundary so I'll let you see it again
now here's another line of evidence that
the Sun has a real surface we have
Carrington rotation on the Sun we've
known this since the 1800s so the Sun
exhibits differential rotation on the
surface as first highlighted by
Carrington when he was observing
sunspots but but the corona winds are
orthogonal to this direction and because
there are thaw in all this requires a
physical boundary so this is one of the
simplest proofs you because you have
this orthogonal displacement of matter
you must have condensed matter there a
gas cannot do this
so another example was high-energy
flares
where it was discovered that if you look
if you get a very very high-energy flare
like greater than 10 mega electron volts
they always occurred they were found to
occur always towards the limb so this
shows that this is an anisotropic
process and again evidence so in it
anisotropic means it doesn't occur in
all directions in other words you're not
sending x-rays out in all directions in
space its preferential in one direction
and that requires that you have a
surface now to explain this the gaseous
models say well look we have magnetic
field lines that are coming in and then
we have a mirror plane and then the
mirror plane causes a reflection and
then this gives us our directionality of
course they're mirror plane is my
surface now here this is an example from
x-ray so if you look at the Sun and
x-ray what do you see if you look at the
line intensity the line intensity is
about one over the entire radius of the
Sun over the entire disk except at the
limb exactly at the limb as soon as you
cross a surface the line intensity
doubles and if you think about that that
means you're sampling twice as much
atmosphere all of a sudden and this
shows that you have a discrete surface
when the disc ends so we see it an x-ray
basically at every frequency band we see
it now this is a nice simple line of
evidence and some of you know that I
took an ad out in The New York Times in
2002 and said the Sun was a was a liquid
people really got a laugh out of it and
I took a lot of heat
of course the article the New York Times
article I did that under the advice of a
very
senior professor which chooses to remain
hidden from history but this was one
thing that I cited in that New York
Times article this particular figure and
this figure is important because it
shows transverse ways on the Sun so this
is a Doppler image you're seeing a flare
coming out in white at you in the upper
left
so the as the flare comes out you start
seeing transverse waves produced on the
surface and transverse waves can only
exist in condensed matter gases cannot
sustain such waves and this by the way
is over millions of meters and so the
wavelength here is millions of meters
this is definitely not the gas now one
of the things is so they're physicists
are troubled by limb darkening and how
do they explain it and I'll show you
that in a minute
but the Sun is brighter at the center
and then it darkens as you go towards
the edge as you go towards the edge of
the disk it looks darker to us okay for
the gas models we justify this using
optical depth but I'm going to explain
to you that this is actually a lattice
effect caused by directional spectral
emissivity which is well understood in
the laboratory we don't need optical
depth to explain this so in the gas
model what are they saying
when you're looking straight at the
center of the disk you're looking deeper
into the sign so it appears hotter
because of the laws of emission tells
you that that's going to look hot if you
look deeper so therefore it's brighter
but when you look at the edge of the Sun
you're not looking as deeply so now it
looks cooler okay so this is the optical
depth argument which doesn't work and
you could read this paper again one of
the reasons this doesn't work is because
kirchoff's law is not valid so you can't
get blackbody spectra the fact that you
can see differentially into the Sun
shows that Kirchhoff's law cannot hold
so anyhow you could read this paper now
I've explained it this way by saying
that the Sun has a true lattice so when
you look at the photosphere it actually
has not only a true lattice I want
specifically this lattice
I want a lattice where the hydrogen
atoms so the Sun is primarily made out
of hydrogen and I want to arrange the
hydrogen in this structure and the
reason is is because this is the
structure the graphite adopts so
hexagonal layers one on top of the other
now I didn't propose this structure in
2002 but I have been saying the Sun has
been a liquid since 2002 at least the
photosphere and that has been as I first
said in the New York Times than other
articles and papers most of the work
you'll find from from 2011 until present
I think I produced 20 papers last year
all I did was sit on my computer and
just write write write so you can find a
lot of papers and the most important
paper to read which condenses everything
is this paper on a building block for
liquid Sun and another paper 40 lines of
evidence for condensed matter so what is
directional spectral emissivity well
this is actually important to this
society the emissivity of a material
depends on whether or not it's a
conductor so if it's if it's a
nonconductor it's it's normal emissivity
will start high so it's up here and then
as you increase the angle of viewing the
emissivity drops if it's a conductor the
normal Mississippi is low and then as
you increase the angle the emissivity
goes up and then finally drops you could
read about that in the papers described
below now here's an example from the
emissivity of granules now granules of
course are substructures on the Sun and
they're there what really what most of
the surface is made out of and granules
are best explained by Baynard convection
that's a surface driven process so if
you don't have a surface you're not
going to get Baynard convection so you
have convection up flow coming through
the center of the granule and then it
recedes on the edges okay so it looks
like a little mountain so what does that
mean well if we go back to our plot
again what we know is that on the angle
when it goes down we're increasing the
angle so I
it goes down it's going to be dark so
we're going to have these dark inner
granule lanes and that's exactly what
you see it looks dark you have these
dark inter granular LANs now in the gas
model they say well that's because the
temperatures are different this
temperature is different than that one
these are all different temperatures
every time you see a different color I
say no the temperature is pretty much
the same or the energy content is pretty
much the same but the emissivity changes
because you've changed the direction
that you're looking at it here's an
example from sunspots now for hundreds
for a hundred years now they've been
telling us that sunspots are cooler the
Umbra of sunspots are cooler now the
first thing about sunspots is there a
manifestation of a real structure
they're not optical illusions so the
surface is an optical illusion you
surely don't can't have a real structure
they are magnetic in nature this is well
known and that's indicative that they're
highly conductive they're emissivities
are best explained by directional
spectral emissivity in conductive
materials not solely by temperature so
you're not really looking at a
temperature effect here the reason that
the sunspot appears dark is seen in the
book in the lower figure here see these
materials are at the same temperature
but this one's a conductor so it's
emissivity is going to be low just like
silver has a low emissivity right so
that's why the sunspot appears dark it's
not because it's cooler it's because
it's more conductive now this one is
going to be harder for you to see I
couldn't find a good slide of a faq' lie
but for you know what a faculy look like
you know that we see the FAQ you lie you
can't see them on this on the center of
the Sun and they start appearing more as
you move towards the limb they become
very obvious towards the limb you look
at this figure carefully even on the web
you will see it so faculy our
manifestation of real structure they're
not optical illusions they have elevated
magnetic fields which also indicates
that there are there are formed from
conductive materials there emissivities
are best explained by directional
spectral emissivity again in conductive
materials so again we're looking at the
sunspot at the center you don't see it
much but all of a sudden its emissivity
increases and now it starts looking
white to us and then as it goes towards
limb the emissivity drops now to explain
this the gas models have to say that
faq' lie I have hot floor
hot balls and cool floors well the floor
can't be cool because you're it's
supposed to be hotter as you go inside
the Sun when you look at the limb
darkening argument and also how do you
get a hot wall in a gas so it's very
very simply explained just by going back
to solid state physics and let's look at
how conductors and non-conductors emit
and this general rule can explain all
these phenomena using a single
explanation now as I've said in my talk
on kirchoff's law the Achilles heel that
the gaseous Sun is this spectrum there
is no way that gaseous Sun can produce a
continuous solar spectrum but
nonetheless even in 1865 people were
saying that the continuous spectrum of
the Sun can be produced by a gas and
remember ball firts Stewart he's the
person who did Stewart's law so remember
Kirchhoff was wrong about his law
Stewart was right but Stewart wrote this
paper saying that a gas could produce
the continuous spectrum of the Sun so
from all this it was inferred that the
luminous photosphere is not to be viewed
as composed of heavy solid or liquid
matter but rather of the nature of
either a gas or a cloud so he says a gas
can account for this that spectrum and
that's not correct
here's another one from 1869 Franklin
and Lockyer I mean for people who know
their signs they know that these are big
names the gaseous condition of the
photosphere is quite consistent with its
continuous spectrum and this condition
has the possibility of this condition
has already been suggested by Stuart
Lowry and delivery now I have this slide
the father of the gaseous son one of the
fathers of the gaseous son now it's
interesting that I call him a father of
the gaseous son because if you read this
quote you'll see that Kirchhoff actually
believed that the Sun the sun's
photosphere was either solid or liquid
he didn't believe it was a gas at all
but the problem is is that Kirchhoff
gave kirchoff's law and when he did when
he wrote this law which we just
discussed in the previous talk he
permitted the astronomers to make the
son of gas
so according to Kirchhoff's law as long
as the Sun can be considered to be
enclosed then it must contain black
radiation even if it's gaseous obtaining
a thermal spectrum is not a difficulty
okay
yet was kirchoff's law actually valid do
arbitrary cavities really contain black
radiation and if so why are all the
laboratory black bodies always
constructed from nearly ideally
absorbing materials so clearly this
wasn't right as we discussed in the
previous talk now I didn't give this
little experiment just turns out you
know this this talk was ready first and
then I was able to give the talk on
Kirchhoff and I was only going to
discuss this one in this talk so I'll
discuss it now so here's an experiment
proving the kirchoff's law is not valid
so what we're going to do is we're going
to have an inner box and an outer box in
the inner box we'll make it out of a
perfect conductor its emissivity is
going to be zero its reflectivity is
going to be one we leave that box open
in the outer box we're going to make it
out of a perfect absorber its emissivity
is going to be one now we're going to
take that outer box and we're going to
plunge it into a helium bath now the the
inside box is sitting on the floor or
the outer box now when I put that outer
box into the helium bath what happens
the whole thing is going to go to 4
Kelvin now the outer box being a perfect
emitter is going to give me photons at 4
Kelvin so I'm going to get a blackbody
spectrum at 4 Kelvin now what do I do I
close the inner box I get rid of the
helium what happens everything goes up
to room temperature now when it does
what's going to happen through
conduction the inner box using
conduction is going to go up to 300
Kelvin but now that door is closed and
it's got 4 Kelvin photons trapped in it
it cannot produce 300 Kelvin photons
because it's emissivity is 0 the outer
box of course will produce 300 Kelvin
photons and so it'll become filled with
black radiation but remember kirchoff's
law said both boxes were supposed to
contain black radiation at the
temperature of interest and now they
don't
so kirchoff's law is broken arbitrary
cavities do not contain black radiation
and of course as I mentioned my
Kirchhoff talk these papers have all
been submitted and the last one is not
just submitted now it was I submitted it
this week and it was immediately
published so that's already published so
the gaseous model of the Sun cannot
account for the thermal spectrum that is
the only proof that's required to
establish condensed matter I don't need
I wrote 40 but you actually only need
this one I really don't care about the
others because this one has a lot of
physics in it but we'll throw in the
others because sometimes people can't
understand this one but they see the
ripples on the Sun and they can
understand that one now who are the
notable advocates of a liquid Sun
the first was Kirchhoff himself and
unfortunately his law undid it Lord
Kelvin was also a prominent advocate of
the liquid santen and this is reviewed
in this paper it's why I think you guys
would enjoy the history paper of how the
Sun became a gas but the most notable
advocate of a liquid Sun was James genes
and he was a phenomenal scientist and
the story of James genes of Sun is
described in the follow-up paper to the
first one now there was an interesting
character called Hastings and Hastings
he wrote in 1881 he wanted graphite on
the Sun but he knew he couldn't get it
so granting this we perceived that the
photosphere contains either solid or
liquid particles hotter than carbon
vapor and consequently not carbon
because he knew he he couldn't get
carbon but at any rate we are sure that
the substance in question as far as we
know it has the properties that are
similar to those of the carbon group so
he wanted something that behaved like
carbon but he knew he couldn't have it
in 1881 so this guy was pretty pretty
smart back then now genes he had a
different approach why did the liquid
Sun die he thought all the stars were
liquids and the reason it died is that
he thought the Sun was made of uranium
or radium well when it was proven that
the Sun was mostly made out of hydrogen
of course he was out of a building block
but he did properly recognized
the phase and he says there's only two
possibilities for stars they can only be
liquids or gaseous there's no
intermediate okay one of the first
points to make is that the Sun is
condensed matter it has a true surface
and solar emissivity must be accounted
for by the presence of a true structural
lattice and here's my nice New York
Times article cited for you guys now
remember you know I was trained as an
inorganic chemist and you learn in
chemistry that hydrogen is the little
cousin of carbon so isn't that
convenient now right at the time the
genes was losing his building block in
the 1920s and had to abandon his liquid
son if he had read Whitner and
Huntington's paper he would have had the
solution because Wigner who is a Nobel
Prize winner in physics said that at
high temperatures and pressures hydrogen
will become metallic it'll assume a
structure which will be condensed so
let's let's read exactly what he said
the objection comes up naturally that we
have calculated the energy of a
body-centered metallic lattice structure
only and that another metallic lattice
may be much more stable we feel that the
objection is justified it is possible
however that a lattice like lattice has
a much greater heat of formation and is
obtainable under high pressure Diamond
is a valence lattice but graphite is a
layered lattice so here what happens is
Wigner and Huntington in 1935 tell us
that hydrogen can assume the graphite
form then Neil Ashcroft which is one of
the top condensed matter physicists in
the world and a great authority on
metallic hydrogen wrote a paper which he
forwarded to me in 1991 and in that
paper Neil wrote on a little reflection
it is apparent that all the quantitative
remarks just presented on the band
overlap state in dense hydrogen by the
way he just recently forwarded to me
on a little reflection it is apparent
that all of the quantitative remarks
just presented on the band overlap state
in dense hydrogen could have been made
with minor modifications about graphite
the tetravalent hexagonal band
overlapped one atmosphere semi-metal
accordingly it is instructive to examine
the known optical characteristics of
graphite in the visible range graphite
appears black to some extent these
characteristics are reported to be
shared by very dense hydrogen one
possible choice for the structure of
dense hydrogen consistent with hexagonal
symmetry is actually a graphite like
arrangement and then lo and behold some
people are working while the rest of us
are sleeping and this person this group
actually recently created dense hydrogen
with a with a graphene structure so the
spectral signature of the strongly
interacting hydrogen molecules is
consistent with the presence of graphene
like sheets a configuration predicted in
early calculations on dense hydrogen so
now we have something quite close in the
laboratory so again this is the
structure that we're looking for now
what have I said I said the photosphere
is comprised of metallic hydrogen which
which has assumed graphite which has
assumed the graphite like layered
hexagonal lattice the inter nuclear
distance is within this lattice or such
that the material is semi metal not very
metallic not highly conductive
so this photosphere cannot be highly
conductive why do we know that we know
that from its emissivity remember its
emissivity is high at normal and then
drops with angle so that means you can't
make this a conductor okay but as you go
inside the Sun then there's compression
and so the lattice gets compressed and
sunspots faq' lie and the convection
zone are comprised of metallic hydrogen
which has adopted the same graphite
light layered structure but this time
it's type 2 in this case the inter
nuclear distance is decreased
much the material such that the material
becomes highly conductive and able to
support both strong magnetic fields and
the solar dynamo which cannot be
correctly explained in the gas model so
we have a solar dynamo how do we get it
to get a dynamo you need a combination
of conductors and insulators you can't
get that in a gas the solid solar core
is likely to be composed of metallic
hydrogen which has adopted a body
centered cubic this was first proposed
by Professor Sewell issue Maru the
corona possesses both free ions and
atoms and sparse distributions of
metallic hydrogen which are type 1 which
have been ejected from the solar
atmosphere into the solar atmosphere
from the body of the Sun so there's
emissions I just showed you a coronal
emission in I mean a coronal mass
ejection in the movie so the Sun is
sending stuff up into its atmosphere the
chromosphere possesses both free ions
and atoms and sparse distributions of
dense hydrogen but that is not metallic
hydrogen its molecular in nature and it
results from the condensate and it
results from condensation reactions in
this region and the transition zone does
not exist so this is what we're saying
in this model the center if you look at
the center of the Sun I think the body
centered cubic makes the most sense for
the structure and of course this is open
to debate you can come up with your own
ideas but I think this one makes the
most sense now in the photosphere we
have the hexagonal layered structure
with hydrogen if you go inside the sign
in the sunspots and the convection zone
we have the same structure but now it's
compressed see this this the inner
nuclear distance is larger here than
here so this is more compressed when it
goes compress the conduction gets very
good the quantum conditions are
fulfilled for good conduction so this
becomes a conductor whereas here the
quantum conditions are not fulfilled and
this could even be an insulator or semi
metal now in the chromosphere we'd have
a structure that might be something like
this this is isn't
- crafts and paper not for the Sun but
generally in reviewing dense hydrogen so
he has a hexagonal structure again but
now the hydrogen's are molecular in
nature so what happens in the Sun is
that you're actually fighting to
recapture the hydrogen in the
chromosphere and then that enters the
Sun and it gets recompressed into
metallic hydrogen so the continuous
spectrum so the chromosphere has a
continuous spectrum and because it does
that's direct evidence that this region
contains condensed matter the
chromosphere is likely to be a site of
hydrogen recapture and condensation in
the solar atmosphere as evidenced by its
emission spectra the chromosphere
thereby acts to help conserve the mass
of the Sun by harvesting some of the
atom hydrogen atoms and protons which
have been released into the solar
atmosphere so here's an example of I
just love stumbling on just a beautiful
paper you know you're not really looking
for it but it just falls right into your
lap like this paper by Earl who won a
Nobel Prize in Chemistry I don't think
for this work but here's an example of
condensation reactions and clusters so
you have two metal clusters with
different amounts of atoms in them and
when they combine they make an activated
cluster that's why there's a star there
and then it relaxes that activated
cluster relaxes by emitting a lone atom
within activated state and then that
atom then is deactivates by emitting a
photon so we know that in the
chromosphere we have light emission okay
we have emission lines from many many
types of cations and atoms and it will
adopt the same ideas so what we're going
to say this is the simplest idea we can
adopt we have hydrogen's of different
numbers of hydrogen's in both groups
they come together in activated form
that gets deactivated you lose a
hydrogen and the hydrogen you lose is is
active and then that activated hydrogen
then gives rise to the light now this
can be if you read the paper where this
is described you will see a very
beautiful explanation
why we have helium triplet lines in the
Sun that are so intense and and in order
to get a helium triplet line remember
you need about 55 electron volts to get
those lines and the chromosphere is only
supposed to be at 5,000 Kelvin so how do
you get 55 electron volts there well
what they what the current models say is
that well
the triplet lines of helium are excited
by photons coming from the corona
they're selectively the selective
photons come just with the right
frequency and excite triplet helium but
if you read my paper you will see that
helium is a great way to harvest
hydrogen and it's known that if you have
helium and hydrogen mixtures when you
have such mixtures you get ions you get
helium hydride cation and you can get
activated helium hydride and I believe
we have both in the Sun these things are
ubiquitous in mixtures of hydrogen and
helium now here's an example for
magnesium you might ask well why is it
that it's magnesium two lines that we
see why do we see calcium two lines why
don't we see the calcium three lines
which of course the calcium three lines
correspond to calcium having lost two
electrons right so why is it that we
don't see the calcium three lines why do
we see calcium two well here's an
explanation from condensation reaction
the same kind of scheme with magnesium
so now we know magnesium hydride is
known to exist in the Sun on the disk
and in the sunspots so what happens is
that magnesium hydride then condenses
with a condensed hydrogen structure and
then donates a hydrogen that structure
becomes active it kicks it donates a
donates a hydrogen it kicks off the
magnesium the the hydrogen structure
grows by one hydrogen atom the magnesium
is now active and now you get an
emission line this by the way I had
missed something very important in these
reactions and my young son who's an
undergrad at OSU said dad and I didn't
listen to him he kept telling me dad
you're missing something and three times
he tried to tell me until finally he
convinced me I was missing something you
could read my son's paper
it's a beautiful addition to this
problem now
how about the corona well we know that
the corona has white light it emits an
white light now how do they explain that
in the gas model well what they say is
we have relativistic electrons in the
corona and those relativistic electrons
are scattering the photosphere 'ok light
now in reality we know that the que
corona is becoming the spectrum of the
que corona is indicating that the
temperature is dropping with distance if
you look at the continuous spectrum of
the que corona its reddening with
distance that means the temperature is
dropping away from the sun but all of
you know of course that we can have iron
25 up there let's say quite high up one
radius up from the solar surface you can
have iron 25 you have these enormous
ionization states how do you get them
so first the continuous spectrum of the
corona does not represent photosphere
'ok light scattered by relativistic
electrons it constitutes direct evidence
that the corona is both self luminous
and relatively cool an apparent
temperature associated with vibrational
degrees of freedom which are no greater
than that of the photosphere and which
decreases with elevation not increases
the presence of highly ionized species
in the corona are not associated with
temperatures in the millions of degrees
but with the presence of condensed
matter in the corona which possesses an
Aleve ated electron affinity which can
strip the electrons which can strip the
atoms of their valence electrons so
you've got metallic hydrogen there it's
starving for electrons and if you're an
unfortunate iron atom that comes near it
you're going to get stripped of all your
electrons the corona is the site of
electron recapture and it works to help
maintain a neutral solar body now one of
the big problems in the Sun has to do
with the solar wind and I want to say on
time here has to do with the solar wind
and the solar activity if you ask your
solar physicists why does the Sun go
active why do we have a solar wind now
the solar wind I discuss it in my paper
and I consider the current explanation a
violation of the laws of thermodynamics
and you could read the paper so
basically what we have is
is that somewhere outside the Sun in the
coral in the atmosphere of the Sun you
have to drive energy processes onto the
Sun so you get flares why because you
have magnetic energy transfer onto the
surface so now I got energy flowing
towards the Sun but in the solar winds I
have to have heat going away from the
Sun well you can't have the heat going
in both directions it's either going
towards the Sun or it's going away from
the Sun so their explanations for solar
wind doesn't work but if you read this
paper liquid metallic hydrogen 3 what do
you see I also wrote a paper on helium
in the Sun because of course the solar
physicists are telling us that the Sun
actually has a reasonable amount of
helium and as you know helium is one of
the three pillars for the big bang right
so the microwave background is one the
redshift is another and helium is the
third so helium in the Sun is very
important to the astronomers because
it's also linked to cosmology but look
at what the Sun is doing with the cycle
what is it doing when it's quiet so you
look here and at the at the top here the
top of the figure in 1996 and 2006
that's when the Sun is quiet so when the
Sun is quiet there's hardly any helium
two lines on the outside it's quite
silent but when it goes active it starts
expelling helium so when why does the
Sun go active because it's degassing
it's non hydrogen elements it wants to
kick everything out so when the Sun is
quiet at the poles you have coronal
holes at the and in those coronal holes
material is leaving the Sun at constant
rates and so now the Sun is degassed
it's able to de gas its poles when it's
quiet but when it goes but it can't do
anything about the equator any any atoms
that are made that are non hydrogen made
in the equator of the Sun they're
trapped they can't get out why and I'll
show you this in a minute so because
they can't get out I'll show you in a
minute so because they can't get out the
Sun has to go active to D gas the
equator and so that's why we see the Sun
going active so here's an example
we know from graphite again graphite can
make intercalate compounds since I'm an
inorganic chemist I know this okay now
how does an intercalate compound work
well what happens is you have your so
we're going to assume that our metallic
hydrogen which can have the same
structure as graphite also can do this
now what I'm saying is that because
inside the Sun you want to keep these
metallic hydrogen bands conductive you
want to you want to keep these layers
conductive we've got electron flow going
through there so if you have a nuclear
reaction you can you create an atom
that's non hydrogen what happens is you
kick it into the intercalate region so
you end up building these atoms in the
intercalate zone and then you have these
hydrogen sheets well now what you have
now you have your insulator that you
need for your for your Dynamo and you
have your conductor okay but the Sun if
you look at the elements that are in
this region these atoms they can't
translate in this direction they cannot
go through the planes so what but they
have almost free motion in this region
so in the poles
if you orient the poles this way now
those atoms can go out and so now during
the corona went during the when the
period when the Sun is quiet you have
atoms escaping at the poles and in the
equator you can't do that because now
you say so I almost have to draw this
for you but in the in the equator the
the hydrogen planes are on the surface
of the Sun they're aligned parallel to
the surface of the Sun so now the atoms
are trapped inside so what happens is
that when you get activity these atoms
can change from a solid phase to a gas
phase and when they do that pushes the
layer up so that's why we get solar
activity and the atoms leave okay so the
Sun tries to D gasps its equator and
that pushes the layers up and this is
why we were getting the sunspots now
there's something very interesting about
this and that is that it this idea very
easily explains why do we get red giants
the reason you get red giant
says you have a star it has a real
lattice it has a hydrogen lattice and
that hydrogen lattice doesn't want the
other elements so it starts making these
layers and all of a sudden all these
layers decide to go in the gas phase at
once and all of a sudden path you're
going to get a red giant now if you had
all these atoms in one region of the Sun
so let's say for instance the Sun has
managed to put these atoms in one layer
there's a lot of non hydrogen atoms in
one layer that are in the solid state
and all of a sudden these go to gas
phase
now you'd get a supernova so I'd like to
acknowledge some people my son Luke he
does all the drawings for my papers and
all so that the one paper where he
corrected his dad we didn't correct me
he added a new idea that I had missed
and so I'd like to acknowledge my son
Luke I have another son also who
contributed the paper to this Bernadette
Carson cenar 'test and she's done lots
of sketches for me all the Graphite's
that you see of course my own department
as you know this started from the a
Tesla scanner and I went into this hard
for a lot of people to understand but my
department has kept supporting me for
all these years and I'm grateful for
them and of course the editors of
progress in physics without that journal
I would have never been able to publish
many of these ideas and they have come
up with a book inside stars and of
course there's a lot of astronomers that
are working out there and they're
getting fantastic data for us and I'd
like to recognize the data that I used
both from Soho and the Swedish solar
telescope thank you very much
