Welcome to Space News from the
Electric Universe, brought to you by
The Thunderbolts Project™
at Thunderbolts.info
NASA's New Horizons mission has
recently shared pictures of the most
distant object in our solar system ever
imaged by a spacecraft. It's nicknamed
Ultima Thule, a relatively tiny body, just
19 miles long, located more than 4
billion miles from Earth in the so
called Kuiper Belt. As we can see, like
countless asteroids, some moons, as well
as the majority of comet nuclei imaged to
date, Ultima Thule is made of two
distinct lobes which are joined by a
thin neck region. Unsurprisingly, the only
process by which planetary scientists
can imagine the object forming is a
collision between two bodies, both of
which had accreted in the solar system's
conjectured infancy, supposedly more than
four billion years ago.
However, for over seven years on this
series we have outlined the amazing
failures, both experimental and
observational, of the gravitational
accretion hypothesis to explain objects
in our solar system and the universe
beyond it. This crisis is outlined in a
2018 news report which states, "According
to the traditional story of the origin
of the solar system, the planets formed
slowly from accretion, as particles in
the circumstellar disk clumped together
to great pebbles, then slightly larger
spheres, on and on until they reached
their current size. But when scientists
tried to re-create this story with
computer models,
it breaks down. Rather than growing, these
incipient planets tend to splinter after
reaching pebble size." Based on the
abundance of small double-lobed objects
in our solar system, it would seem
according to astronomers, that collisions
between these bodies have not been
particularly rare but have been
relatively commonplace in our solar
system's history. These objects have
routinely floated together and then
fused, incredibly sometimes
forming a neck region in the process. In
the case of the comet 67P, Rosetta
mission scientists had favored the
speculation that such a low-speed
collision between two comets had created
the double lobed nucleus. But more
recently, a team of scientists
acknowledged that 67P does not appear to
be billions of years old. They performed
simulations to try to prove that, a mere
millions of years ago, two comets were
destroyed in a high-velocity collision
and then re-coalesced rather than
dispersing in the vacuum of space, as
depicted in the computer animation on
your screen. In contrast, the Electric
Universe has always proposed that comets,
asteroids, and meteoroids, did not form
from accretion billions of years ago.
Rather, they were recently torn from
planetary surfaces by interplanetary
electrical discharge. In fact, as we have
shown dozens of times, the double-lobed
form is easily reproduced in experiments
with electrical discharge creating a
stunning analog for countless celestial
objects. Today, physicist Wal Thornhill
explains why Ultima Thule appears to be
yet another resounding victory for the
Electric Universe theory. NASA and the
Space Age is the gift that keeps on
giving. This last week we've had the New
Horizons spacecraft arriving at a tiny
body in the so-called Kuiper Belt in the
outer reaches of the solar system. The
nickname given by NASA scientists to the
object is Ultima Thule; in classical and
medieval literature a name given to a
distant unknown region, the extreme limit
of travel and discovery. Ultima Thule is
a Kuiper Belt object or 'KBO' also known
more specifically as a trans-Neptunian
object or 'TNO' since the Kuiper belt
occupies an enormous doughnut shaped
volume in the cold outer reaches of our
solar system beyond the orbit of Neptune.
The New Horizons spacecraft is sampling
this region from the orbit of Neptune at
30 AU
out to a distance of 50 AU. According to
the Nebular Hypothesis of formation of
the solar system, astronomers believe
there are millions of small icy leftover
objects out there including hundreds of
thousands that are larger than 60 miles
or 100 kilometers wide. Some, including
Pluto, are over 600 miles or 1,000
kilometers wide. When the first pixelated
image of Ultima Thule arrived - showing
an elongated object, I wrote, "This
discovery, based on the double-lobed
appearance, fits perfectly with the
Electric Universe scenario. See for
example my recent YouTube space news on
'Seeing Double.' Close-up images should
probably show a non-icy rocky appearance
like Comet 67P." A NASA web site tells us,
"A fairly large number of Kuiper Belt
Objects, or KBOs, either have moons -- that
is, significantly smaller bodies that
orbit them -- or are binary objects.
Binaries are pairs of objects that are
relatively similar in size or mass that
orbit around a shared center of mass
that lies between them. Some binaries
actually touch, creating a sort of peanut
shape, creating what's known as a contact
binary. Pluto, and other minor planets;
Eris, Haumea and Quaoar, are all Kuiper
Belt objects that have moons." Formation by
gravitational accretion didn't predict a
double lobed shape for planetesimals,
asteroids, or comets. In fact, it has
difficulty in keeping small colliding
particles together without some form of
stickiness or electrostatic clinginess.
Then there's a problem removing angular
momentum from closely orbiting bodies. It
requires a number of smaller objects to
be slung out of the system to remove the
excess momentum. But we run into a
problem that was identified by the
astronomer Tom Van Flandern. He said, "The
most difficult objection for the
gravitational condensation theory is to
overcome how such objects could form in
the first place." The mean distance
between small bodies in the vast volume
of the Kuiper Belt is so great that
collision and accretion has negligible
probability. So, the leftmost image from
NASA JPL is fanciful, to say the least.
Then there's the problem of attaching
and forming a neck between two bodies.
The impact was proposed in the NASA TV
presentation as equivalent to a bump in
a car parking lot. But that doesn't
explain the neck. Ice can be treated as
rock at the very low temperatures at
that distance from the Sun and rocks
don't fuse together when they collide
at low speed. More significantly, why do
we only ever see two objects fused
together? In later more detailed images,
it seems Ultima Thule has significant
cratering which implies many high-speed
collisions between objects in the Kuiper
Belt despite the fact that they should
be orbiting the Sun with low relative
velocities and an infinitesimal
probability of collision. Given their
vanishingly small cross section in the
unimaginable immensity of Kuiper Belt
space, NASA’s story only survives because
diagrams, like that shown, give a false
impression. But that's not all.
Gravitational accretion is a hypothesis,
not a fact. Calling rings of material
around distant stars 'accretion discs' is
merely an assumption. We routinely see
stars ejecting matter, yet it is never
considered that such discs may be
equatorial ejection discs like a mega
coronal mass ejection. Such is the
mesmerizing power of a paradigm, a story
told over and over so the brain goes
into neutral. And it is remarkable how
the disciplined mind shuts out, to
quickly forget discordant data. For
example, here is one discovery that shows
there is not enough material in nebular
disks to make planets, let alone minor
planets at vast distances from the star.
Only last October, Quanta magazine
published an article 'Planets Found to Be
Larger Than the Disks They Come From.' It
reads, "...a new research paper suggests
that planets may be forming in ways beyond
our understanding. In system after system
planets are much larger than the
universe's biggest star-skirts. This
seems to defy maths, or at least reason;
planets shouldn't be larger than the
stuff they're made from." Of course, this
defies understanding because the model
is wrong. Powerful long-range
electromagnetic forces could form all
condensed objects in the universe.
Gravity has nothing to do with it.
Only after the electromagnetic forces
have subsided, does gravity, the weakest
force in the universe, take over to
produce orbital systems. Galaxies are
star birth engines and they show the
electromagnetic forces in action. That's
why Gravitational Theory doesn't work
for them. Modified gravity, black holes,
and dark matter, are unnecessary fictions
once this simple fact is understood. We
can stop spending billions chasing
imaginary particles and objects in deep
space. Plasma cosmologists have known the
answer for half a century. But the
crabbed spirit of specialism has denied
astronomers this understanding. Science
as it is practiced today, is
dysfunctional. The alignment of spiral
galaxies, like Catherine wheels strung
along a wire, and their common rate of
rotation regardless of size, is all
simply explained if the wire happens to
be in the form of galactic-scale
rotating Birkeland current filament
pairs. Birkeland currents are formed by
two parallel current filaments which
attract each other according to Ampere's
law. As they draw closer, the magnetic
attraction between them is overcome by
electrostatic repulsion caused by charge
separation within those filaments. As a
result, those filaments circle about each
other to form a twisted pair, a
configuration well known to electrical
engineers. And it is this pairing
that tends to concentrate matter in
toroids and closely orbiting bodies. The
galactic toroid gives rise to the
observed peanut cross-section of the
central galactic bulge in spiral
galaxies. Plasma behavior is scalable
over an enormous range; from the galactic
down to the laboratory on Earth where
this has been tested. So the process that
forms stars and galaxies also forms
planets and smaller satellites in the
same process. That process has been seen
by infrared telescopes to produce stars
in pairs, like beads on a necklace, along
interstellar Birkeland currents inside
molecular clouds. At present, smaller
bodies like planets can't be detected in
molecular clouds by our infrared
telescopes. So, what evidence do we have
for the formation of planets in pairs?
There was a report from the Keck
Observatory in January last year titled
'Planets around other stars are like Peas in
a Pod.' It reads, "...the team found that
exoplanets tend to be the same sizes as
their neighbors. If one planet is small,
the next planet around that same star is
very likely to be small as well, and if
one planet is big, the next is likely to
be big. They also found the planets
orbiting the same star tend to have a
regular orbital spacing." So, it is very
interesting that the astronomer Tom Van
Flandern drew attention to the
possibility that Jupiter and Saturn can
be considered as twins. Even more so if
Saturn ejected a lot of matter recently
leaving the evidence behind in that
planet's ephemeral rings. Also, Uranus and
Neptune make appear with similar masses,
compositions and solar distances. "Each
pair is notably dissimilar to its
adjoining pair or pairs. Now there is no
particular reason under the 'primeval
solar nebula' hypothesis of planetary
formation why this should be so. The
nebula from which the planets allegedly
condensed should have been rather
homogeneous in most respects, and planet
masses should have had a
smooth radial gradient with solar
distance." Sometimes in moments of
lucidity, science writers state the
obvious.
Richard Kerr in the Science journal in
1999, addressed this issue. "The four
terrestrial planets nestled closely to
the life-giving Sun make an unlikely
family. Little, moonlike Mercury is
mostly iron, covered with a bit of rock,
and has no atmosphere. Venus, Earth's twin
in size and composition, is smothered by
a most un-Earth-like inferno of an
atmosphere and is drier than any desert.
On Earth, which is nearly drowning in
water, continents drift across a surface
infected in every crack and crevice by life.
And Mars - 1/10 the mass of Earth -- has
an ancient, immobile face, now dry and
lifeless but with hints of an earlier,
more hospitable era. A single family? More
like a bunch of unrelated adoptees from
alien planetary systems." The
centuries-old nebular accretion model is
long overdue for retirement yet every
space mission is launched with the
benediction that it will show us how the
solar system was formed. It can do that
but not while reciting the nebular
hypothesis as a fact. It has been
discredited again and again during the
Space Age but all that happens is that
computer models are adjusted to provide
the virtual reality which passes for
science in this unenlightened age. So far,
observers have catalogued over 2,000
trans-Neptunian objects. Importantly,
those objects are not evenly distributed
through space. Once astronomers started
discovering them in the early 1990's, one
of the early surprises was that they
could be grouped according to the shapes
and sizes of their orbits. This led
scientists to understand that there are
several distinct groupings or
populations of these objects whose
orbits provide clues about their history.
The expectation was that if there were
objects beyond Neptune, they would be in
relatively circular orbits that aren't
tilted too much from the plane of the
planets. Instead, many KBO’s are
found to belong to families, some with
significantly elliptical and tilted
orbits and associations with the planet
Neptune. Pluto's orbit is in a stable
repeating pattern with Neptune's. For
every three orbits completed by Neptune,
Pluto makes two orbits. These features
suggest capture episodes rather than
leftovers of a primordial nebula. Dr.
John Hewitt wrote in his report to the
Royal Society 'A habit of lies', "To be of
any real value, a new idea must compete
with existing suppositions used to
explain the same data set. It is
diametrically wrong to demand of a new
hypothesis that it be consistent with
the ideas it sets out to replace." The
Electric Universe is a distinctly new
hypothesis. It uses forensic evidence
from the entire span of man's experience
of the sky to replace the old
theoretical belief in the orderly nebular
hypothesis -- that the planets orbit now
roughly where they were formed
primordially. This idea is centuries old
and formed the basis of the uniformity
principle, beloved by mathematicians
because they believe they can feed in
the movements of the planets today and
announce where the planets were
thousands or even millions of years ago.
This has allowed scientists to propose
gradual evolution and climate cycles
based on slight wobbles of the Earth. It
is merely wishful thinking. The
geological record shows otherwise with
clear evidence of paroxysms of extreme
violence. The solar system has a recent
dramatic history which we will only
begin to understand when we give up the
nebular hypothesis and look for family
resemblances instead, because the Sun has
a blended family. As Tobias Owen of the
University of Hawaii recommended in
considering random events in shaping the
solar system, "...it behooves planetary
scientists to decipher the patterns..,
looking for the ties that unite even the
most dissimilar siblings into a single
family." Only then may we understand
Ultima Thule and that knowledge
will change everything.
