I want to introduce dr. jerry Pollak
from the University of Washington where
he's a professor of bioengineering for
the past 10 years he has been looking at
electrical structures in water as his
presentation last year was extremely
compelling and I I'm hoping that he'll
review some of that territory as he also
brings us some of his new work and and
brings us up to speed on what he's doing
and the implications of his work for the
future so please welcome to the stage
dr. Pollock well thanks thanks David
actually I got a prop here they gave me
some water but but the topic the topic
of the day is not water I love to talk
about water it's so interesting it's so
full of charges and it fits so well with
with the electric universe but I want to
talk about something else today I want
to talk about the Institute for venture
science a few of you may remember I
don't know how many of you are new or
not new and we talked about this last
year at the meeting and this is really a
kind of progress report though I will
start with some rationale for those of
you who were not here because the first
thing you may be wondering is what
what's the Institute for venture science
and what's venture science and why
bother with all this so what I want to
do today the agenda is as follows first
of all is it really true as martin lopez
Cordura says in his recent book that
this is the twilight of the scientific
age I'm not sure how you feel about that
but
okay and and and then the issue of is
there really a chronic decline in
science as we see it compared to say a
hundred years ago with the Einsteins and
the plunks and people like that is the
chronic decline curable and how can the
Institute for ventures science bring a
cure to this this syndrome and I want to
tell you the current status of the
Institute for venture science okay so we
start with an idea an idea that you may
have and the idea is a let's a round
earth idea so you come up with this
brilliant idea that the earth is round
and everybody around you knows for sure
that the earth is flat you think well
you know this is a pretty cool idea and
it's it's awfully important that the
earth is round and the question is if
you if you do this today if you were to
come up with this idea what chance would
you have with this revolutionary idea to
gain some traction again some success
you might think you might think an idea
as compelling as this would would have
attract a lot of interest and perhaps
trigger some kind of revolution but you
know if recent experience is a guide it
doesn't happen that way because we
haven't seen a whole lot of revolutions
in the past 30 or 40 or 50 years
so consider think about the number of
revolutions that we've had since let's
say 1970 or so that's a pretty arbitrary
date now what I'm asking you to think
about is in terms of revolutions we're
talking about a conceptual revolution
we're not talking about technological
revolutions which are supported by
industry and there have been quite a few
of those I mean everything related to
the Internet and and such that's not
what I'm talking about I'm talking about
a conceptual revolution some new idea
that has never really been considered
before that that changes our outlook of
the world and I'm looking at realized
revenue
you read in New York Times or even Wall
Street Journal it tells you about the
new promising drug that has the capacity
to cure cancer it has the capacity it's
promised but is not realized you hardly
ever come they hardly ever come to the
realization so what I'm talking about is
something like for example the splitting
of the atom but that's a conceptual
revolution that was 70 years ago another
one is this structure of DNA that was
1953 so that was I think 60 61 years ago
and it led to all kinds of interesting
things about the human genome and such
and and and so that that's what I mean
by conceptual revolutions a new concept
that changed our ability and led to so
many new technologies in the future so I
ask you to think for a moment how many
modern conceptual realized revolutions
can you think of I give you 30 seconds
you're having a difficult time yes okay
now I know that some of you can actually
think of one or two I asked this
question to many people and I get a
blank look that's the response I think
there has been one and I'll mention it
later I think only one that I know of
and it's in the medical sciences will
come to that a bit later but you know
the editors of science in their hundred
25th anniversary edition in 2005 decided
to do exactly that
they tracked the revolutions that have
occurred in science from the time of the
Greeks to 2005 and this was done in a
kind of fold-out page that well it was
kind of like a played Playboy fold-out
page except the pictures were less
interesting
you know the picture of Einstein and and
what he did and Max Planck and so on so
I I conducted an exercise I made two
lists
I took the names of people and what they
contributed from 2005 back 40 years and
I did the same thing a century ago from
1905 back 40 years and this is a
sampling of the of the old list now I
bet you that everybody in the audience
knows every single one or almost every
one I took the full list in fact and I
gave it to many peoples scientists and
non-scientists and almost everybody was
able to identify almost everybody on the
list no question and then I took the
modern list and here's again this is a
random sampling from about 15 different
people how many of you can identify zero
of these people okay something is
something is the matter here how come
now we're talking about from 1965 right
so we're talking extending back half
century you know so you might say well
some of this stuff you know just takes a
lot of time for revolutions to a car you
know but since we know that political
revolutions can take place overnight
practically how come it takes 50 years
for this to happen something is is
something is different it really is true
that there are very few revolutions that
have occurred these people actually have
done important things
Kary Mullis for example was involved in
developing the pcr method of amplifying
DNA it was not exactly a conceptual
revolution it was a a technological
revolution and another of these
scientists figured out how to culture
stem cells which made possible a lot of
interesting experiments but they're not
really the kinds of the kinds of
discoveries that are comparable to
Einstein or plunk or Curie or what have
you okay so so why why challenge
conventional thinking with revolutionary
ideas aren't we making great progress
we're making huge progress the number of
papers that are published exceed the
number of papers ever published in
history it's a it's amazing how many but
the question is you know what are we
really
what new understanding we do we have
from all of that that knowledge of
course we advance through revolutions
this is just a few examples but the
problem now is that revolutions are
really sparse there's something wrong
something is going on we had lots of
revolutions a hundred years ago but it's
really hard to really hard to identify a
revolution in in the past year so why so
few revolutions well there's no
revolutionary ideas challenge the status
quo and these threaten the the
stakeholders in the prevailing paradigm
and threaten the grant reviewers and you
know what happens when people get
threatened they respond and so most
scientists understand that if you if you
threaten the these stakeholders you have
to be careful and particularly in the
institutions that I deal with all the
time the National Institutes of Health
and the National Science Foundation most
most scientists with revolutionary ideas
keep it secret they don't apply once
they apply they know they won't get the
money and also they develop a reputation
as being the kind of person who you stay
away from so some revolutionary a change
is suppressed as a result I think
largely of the institutions that we have
that fund science is a modern science
made the tree of knowledge may look
something like this but the modern
dwelling place of most science is up
here at the periphery of the of the Tree
of Knowledge this this place is is safe
you don't shake the tree you don't pull
off a big limb and it's non-disruptive
so everybody's happy
you know a lot of papers are being
published the news releases press
releases from every institution show
great progress and real promise for the
future but not many revolutions so the
revolutionary progress comes when a limb
when someone discovers that you know one
of these limbs is not really as sound as
we expect and you prune the limb and and
come up with some brand new growth and
so one example of that that is very
familiar here is the heliocentric solar
system once that happened then
everything changed this was a new a new
limb on the on the tree of knowledge
another one in the medical realm is the
one by Semmelweis who found out that if
you wash your hands before you deliver
babies or conduct surgery the patient is
more likely to survive and of course he
was brushed aside and he died insane
from all the pressure that that was that
was put upon him so the new growth is
really what we're looking for and which
gives you a revolutionary advance it's
kind of like a you know you look at
something and this looks great it's
obviously this is a rectangle but you
know you look at it from another
direction and it's a different reality a
different a fresh perspective teaches
you something different so today this is
the issue we have a huge amount of money
that is put into science if you add up
just in the US the National Institutes
of Health and the National Science
Foundation it's approximately 40 billion
dollars if you add defense and such it's
probably up to hundred billion dollars
just in the u.s. it's a lot of money but
very few revolutions and if you compare
that to a hundred years ago almost no
money there was some
it's that kind of paradox isn't it I'm
glad there's some humor in this but
something something is wrong here
because we got a lot of input but no
output a lot of promise but no no real
revolutions so why is this the case well
I I kind of alluded to it you can think
of a few few ideas maybe maybe a
scientists are stupider than they were a
hundred years ago it could be you know
the environment is having some real
negative impact on us
maybe we're eating the wrong food or the
electromagnetic pollution or something
so that I guess that that's one idea we
hope that the the increase of stupidity
is somehow compensated by the larger
numbers doing it maybe maybe the
problems are harder I don't know but
I've seen no evidence that the problems
are harder now than then they were a
hundred years ago or another another
possibility as well everything is
already known therefore you know there's
nothing to know no revolutions to occur
and I know what you folks think about
that so I think that there what I
alluded to before is it's the culture of
science today that is is the culprit
the emphasis the emphasis on
productivity producing lots of papers
competing to get into the prestigious
journals and such and and so it's a
culture where power is really important
that power is given to the experts and
power is given to the vested interests
we need money to do a research the
experts are the ones who decide whether
the revolutionaries get the money or
don't get the money this is not a system
to encourage radical thinking and fresh
ideas so you come up with a fresh idea
and the typical response from the
establishment is something like this you
know you're proposing what
yuck so this is this is the kind of you
know I think many of you have been there
this is this is the kind of response
what I've discovered is that there
actually are plenty of round earth ideas
out there I I study water but I've been
in several different fields during my my
career and I used to think the first
field that I entered which was actually
cardiac cell electrophysiology I kind of
started in biology and I thought I
thought they were their prevailing views
but there were challenging views out
there and nobody took them seriously and
I thought this is a problem and then I
entered into cell biology and I saw the
same problem and then I entered into
muscle contraction and I saw the same
problem a theory that has been around
since 1954 believed by everybody but the
evidence is so clearly against it and
the people who have evidence against
have no ability to make any inroads
against the establishment so I came to
realize that this is true in numerous
fields I think the people around here
some of you may believe it's true and
the electric universe area but this is
endemic it's it's just all over all over
science usually what happens is the
response that I've seen among many
people is the response to around earth
idea and the Flat Earth environment well
if the idea isn't good
it would have been discovered earlier
and everybody would know it's true and
blah blah blah and so your idea can't be
any good because obviously that hasn't
happened the case closed just to give
you a couple of ideas of of some of the
when I think are kind of interesting
ideas out there of course the the energy
idea tapping energy from the environment
starts way back from from Tesla but
there was a particular invention that I
came across which kind of interesting
because it it
it capitalizes on the Earth's electric
field and it's looks something like this
it looks complicated but the principle
is really simple if these are balloons
way up and they're actually there to
suspend a metallic ring and since the
electric the electrical potential in the
atmosphere is something like a hundred
volts per meter you have a potential
difference between this metallic ring
and ground and if you put a motor in
between the potential difference between
here and here is enough to drive that
motor and there were a lot of
electrostatic motors that ran on low
current high voltage many years ago and
are still being developed and can
produce on the order of 75 to 100 watts
of mechanical energy which is you know
pretty pretty substantial and these have
not really seen the light of day and
here's another example this is a lifter
and some of you know about lifters it's
just a u-turn you you have one electrode
here this aluminum foil and the and the
other electrode is a wire up at the top
which you can barely see you put a
potential difference of ten thousand
volts between them and this lifts up we
have one in my laboratory it lifts up
easily to a meter is just putting the
potential difference of 10,000 volts
that's all and you get lifting as a
result of that my estimate is that
nobody knows how it works of course we
have some ideas but this is the kind of
thing that you'd seem it would seem to
to demand some development and some
understanding but I bet many of you have
never heard of these lifters and in the
area of health also my favorite is
always this one that it's it's a book
that's called the doctor who cures
cancer and this is Amelia ravit who died
about 10 years ago the age of a hundred
and he had the reputation of if if
someone was really sick and cancer and
they were just about gone they go to
Ravi ji and Ravi T was able to do this
is
a quote from the guy who was the
retiring president of the Sloan
Kettering Cancer Research Center which
is the most perhaps the most
distinguished one in in the u.s. in New
York and he said that quote on the back
I don't know how he does it but people
walk in dead and walk out alive
I come into contact with a lot of people
who deal with alternative health and I'm
amazed by the the by the progress that
these people have made and and the
ability of these people to actually cure
people with cancer who can't be cured by
the standard chemotherapy radiation
surgery that's been used effectively for
50 years just mine or technological
improvements so another area that that
that needs to be dealt with with new
fresh information and fresh ideas so
problems remain unsolved they want the
two I mentioned Plus understanding how
our brains work and Alzheimer's disease
function dysfunction combating global
warming if you believe in it or
establishing that it's not true which
some colleagues I just spoke at NASA
there's a big group of people who are
absolutely certain that there's no
warming this needs to be straightened
out
eliminated starvation and many others
okay so I've given you the background
I've given you the problems and I've
given you some maybe some evidence about
that new book I mentioned that the
decline of the twilight of the
scientific age we're not producing what
we used to produce in science so we
decided to see if we can do something
about it and we decided to put together
a foundation that funds promising ideas
that challenge conventional thinking now
obviously we have no we have no building
or no this is just a sort of dream for
the future we call it we call it the
Institute for venture science or IV s
and this institute is a funding a
see it funds promising ideas that
challenge conventional views and there
are a few twists to it and I want to
tell you about it that I think make it
will make it operate effectively so how
will we foster the kind of revolutionary
advance that we know is missing now we
need it we need it badly to solve our
problems so the first is that we invite
groundbreaking proposals it doesn't
matter what field anybody who has an
earth-shaking idea around earth idea and
the Flat Earth environment send it to us
and we of course put it through a
vetting process and I won't go into
detail about the the initial entry we
don't want flaky proposals obviously we
want substantial ones we asked the Flat
Earth people to please tell us what's
wrong with this round earth proposal and
you can guess how scathing their review
is going to be we know that okay so you
have the round earth applicant and you
have a bunch of Flat Earth people
feeding back and saying this is the
biggest I ever it but give us
some reasons why you think it's not
right
and so we establish a debate between the
two and the people who listen to this
debate are outside the field they don't
care whether the earth is round they may
care but they have no bias as to whether
the earth is round or whether the earth
is flat they want to listen they want to
hear how well this applicant can defend
himself against those tigers and lions
and and then what happens is we make
judgment as to how well they did and how
important their subject is it's the
product of those two that determines
their score we fund the selected
proposals liberally because you know
people who venture into the real unknown
they need often they need substantial
funds and they need to have
the confidence that they're going to be
funded for some years at least otherwise
it's too risky to go into there are
human issues that need to be taken into
into account now here's the key I
haven't told you the real key the real
key is next the real key is that we fund
multiple groups pursuing the same theme
so we get the rounders idea we fund the
rounders idea and we try to identify
around the world 10 or 12 different
groups who also think that the earth
might be round but they're using
different techniques to to to check it
and so what what that does is it creates
a critical mass you know it's it's easy
it's easy to dismiss one person as a
crackpot oh you know stay stay away from
that person because their ideas are
really weird then you'll never get
anywhere but when a dozen groups come to
the the annual meeting of the shape of
the Earth Society and hey what's going
on here there are a dozen groups
reporting that the the earth is round
instead of flat then they have to pay
attention so the single one is dismissed
but the multiplicity is really the
critical factor that can make a
difference and that can bring
revolutions you know if if the round
earth really has the goods within two or
three or four years people will it'll be
obvious that that the evidence for this
is convincing and I think within a few
years there'll be a phase transition a
new way of thinking revolution on the
other hand if the rounder if people
don't really have the evidence and the
earth is flat they don't have to defend
themselves and then we'll know for sure
that the earth is flat but we'll be more
certain of it so either way the
investment is good investment because
both sides are put on the same platform
to debate and then we learn which one is
correct and I think many of these will
lead to two revolutions okay so how do
we do this well we have a funding goal
and the funding goal is it's sort of
arbitrary but we think of an endowment
an endowment say on the order of ten
billion dollars and from that endowment
we could use the interest which at 5% is
something like well 500 million dollars
now for five hundred million dollars if
you think of that each project let's say
arbitrarily gets 1 million dollars per
year just arbitrarily some need less
others may need more that's enough to
fund 50 revolutionary ideas time say 10
labs per idea simultaneously now it
sounds like a lot of bucks but it's less
than one percent of the u.s. annual
research budget this annual budget less
than one percent and for that we
anticipate out of this will come
multiple revolutions and the present
course has produced almost no
revolutions at much higher annual budget
so if you think about what happens you
get revolutions and from revolutions you
get fresh insight about the workings of
the world new solutions to all the
problems that plague the world and a
bright future and for those who are you
know more practically minded think about
what revolutions can do every revolution
every new concept leads to many new
technologies inevitably and economic
revitalization and again a bright future
so if you think about about the the
prospects what what this can bring and
think about well how do you get people
to donate we're looking for private
donors it's very easy to to donate to
something like the Gates Foundation
which by the way is right around the
corner from us this guy was actually the
boss of my son when he was young so Bill
Gates formed the Gates Foundation and
you know if you put in money to the
Gates Foundation or other foundations
they do good and you all know that Gates
Foundation has been making real progress
producing vaccines that some of us think
are good and
others think our not so good and
producing sanitary conditions and
toilets and such so so so people are
tempted to donate now what's different
about us is we promise something beyond
that it's a kind of amplification effect
you put in a small amount of money and
you can get potentially huge dividends
out of it I just give you one example so
you know a few few scientists were
playing around with with impurities and
semiconductor materials about 60 70
years ago and that of that came
transistors and diodes and photo diodes
and they'll digital cameras and solar
cells and integrated circuits
microprocessors laptops smartphones
basically everything we do today came
from a discovery of physicists and the
engineers working at the fundamental
level and that's what we're talking
about funding some capsule of an idea
and who knows what that can lead to it's
unpredictable but it can be awfully big
now there are quite a few billionaires
out there some of you know that many of
them signed the Giving Pledge that was
suggested by by Bill Gates which means
that ultimately many many people will be
donating a large or substantial amount
of various charities many want to give
back to society and many want to to
leave a legacy they want to be
remembered Bill Gates
I would guess wants to be remembered not
for being the richest guy in the world
but for having founded the Gates
Foundation which did many good things so
so that's an idea and of course if
someone is willing to donate a couple of
billion bucks it's possible that this
could be part of the legacy now why can
we make this happen well I think we have
a we assembled a very interesting and
capable
group of people so let me tell you about
our advisory panel the people who we ask
for advice and they come back and give
us advice and I've just read to you to
give you some idea of the distinction of
these people and Michael Crosby was the
executive director of the National
Science Board which runs the NSF he also
was a vice chancellor of a university
Peter Katonah was the president of the
Whitaker Foundation which funds funded
bioengineering John Strauss was the CFO
of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute
and he's been president of four
universities I guess they didn't like
him so much Alexander Coyne avala was
the is is was the rector of Kazan
University in Russia that's the third
ranked university in all of Russia and
was also the head of a large chemical
Institute and for those of you
interested in homeopathy he has
brilliant results now that can explain
how this really works Barry Marshall you
may not recognize his name Nobel
laureate from Western Australia he's a
guy who I think was responsible for one
of the few revolutions that is finding
out that ulcers were not necessarily
caused by worrying but by bacteria he
had a difficult time of it and maybe you
know that eventually he swallowed the
bacteria he got an ulcer and they cured
himself with an antibiotic and then they
gave him a Nobel Prize astonied Petrovic
is a was the rector and just retired
Ljubljana University and a member of the
National Science Board Doug Randall and
Don Miller is a guy who I know in
Seattle and he was chief of
cardiovascular surgery and also a
well-known philosopher of science very
deep understanding of the scientific
processes so that's the advisory panel
and the core group or the executive
staff I think is a group or committed
with complementary skills and you may
know some because there are some people
are floating around here and that James
Ryder who used to be the vice president
of Lockheed Martin and Frank Costanzo
who's around here today
and who's been a senior-level political
adviser and has turned around
many businesses Susan she wrote you know
was an HMO executive and and myself and
and so I think with the devotion of this
executive staff and the advisory panel I
think we have a chance to to make it
happen the website is under construction
and we hope that it will be up and you
can look at it within the next few weeks
that's really our starting point
something that we need in order to
launch realistically the campaign to to
get funded so the Institute for venture
science we're talking about unthinkable
ideas today and received wisdom tomorrow
thank you
you
