welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info for many decades few scientists
have challenged the mainstream
theoretical model of the Sun most in the
general public today probably believe
that astronomers have a good
understanding of the Sun and no reason
exists to question the solar model we
learned about in school but in truth
countless seemingly unresolvable
mysteries of the Sun continue to haunt
scientists today is the electric
universe the key to a new and better
understanding of the Sun here is Cameron
Mercer with the Thunderbolts picture of
the day managing editor Stephen Smith as
they provide a brief introduction to the
electric Sun Theory over several hundred
years astronomers studying the Sun have
amassed a laundry list of anomalies but
these apparent contradictions arise only
if the solar system is electrically
inert take into account the sun's
electrified environment and its
connection to galactic currents and the
anomalies disappear well the general
premise is probably thousands of years
old that we could be living in a dynamic
solar system where electricity plays an
important role but it's only been in say
the last hundred years that scientists
have given serious credence to the
possibility and since electric universe
theory assumes that celestial bodies
interact through conductive plasma and
are connected in circuits the Sun is
also assumed by electric universe
theorists to be electrically connected
with the galaxy as well as earth so the
Sun can be thought of as an electrically
charged object seeking equilibrium with
its environment and the charge is
flowing into and out of the Sun increase
and decrease to the point where it
releases plasma discharges called solar
flares or coronal mass ejections and
sometimes it doesn't display any
sunspots or any major coronal activity
at all and after all the sun's electric
field extends for billions of kilometers
in
fluency the planets and their motions as
well as how they interact with each
other
now if the environment of the Sun is
electrified then we would expect
tangible effects on all other charged
bodies sharing the same environment this
effect is testable we suggest that this
effect can explain many anomalous
behaviors of the solar wind
including behavior so outrageous it
defies kinetic explanations entirely
yeah on January 20th 2005 a coronal mass
ejection achieved velocities greater
than anything any astronomer had ever
seen it often will take 24 hours or more
for charged particles from a solar
explosion to reach earth but this one
arrived in under 30 minutes after the
explosion so energies to propel a proton
storm 96 million miles to earth in just
under a half an hour is pretty
unbelievable that's an incredible amount
of energy back in the day when NASA
scientists were talking about this one
of the quotes was for reasons no one
understands these fields exploded and
leashing as much energy as 10 billion
hydrogen bombs so one wonders what
drives the Sun to throw off billions of
tons of solar material and accelerate it
to thousands of kilometers per second
the sun's heat and radiation pressure
can't explain how charged particles
accelerate out past the planets no one
expected acceleration prior to the
discovery of the solar wind and in the
electric universe the obvious
explanation is that there are electric
fields in space and since particles
continue to accelerate out into the
solar system since they don't have
little onboard rockets on these
particles then something must be drawing
them onward and the only thing that can
accelerate charged particles is an
electric field since these charges flow
through the solar system then it seems
reasonable to conclude that the dark
mode solar plasma or the so
our wind is affected by the electro
dynamic fields of the Sun and by the
fields of the planetary family solar
flares the corona of the Sun and all the
other solar phenomena result from
changes in electrical input to the Sun
the Sun trans acts with all the family
of planets in the solar system and it
probably is transacting with the
interstellar medium as well since it's
powered externally and not internally it
must reach an equilibrium with the
electrical environment to the galaxy for
continuous updates on space news from
the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
