welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at under bolts dot
info in his recent space news interviews
comparative mythologist EV cochran
introduced his extraordinary
decades-long research into ancient
testimony of catastrophic celestial
events witnessed on earth as cochrane
explained in countless ancient cultures
the identities of familiar planets and
myth including Mars and Venus cannot be
explained in terms of anything seen in
our world today the planet Mars a
distant pinpoint of light to the unaided
eye today was globally identified as a
warrior hero the planet Venus a bright
pinpoint of light to modern sky watchers
was identified in various phases as a
great comet a goddess with flowing hair
a feathered serpent and more in this
conclusion Cochrane begins by explaining
the painstaking methodology he and
colleague David Talbott developed over
their decades-long collaboration which
ultimately produced their reconstruction
of recent planetary catastrophes
witnessed on earth I often compared the
researcher David myself to that of James
Watson and Francis Crick and
reconstructing the precise helical
structure of DNA initially we were
presented with just a giant jigsaw
puzzle as it were with with very few
clues as to where the respective planets
belong in addition to the complex nature
of the puzzle itself this was an ever
evolving planetary configuration in
which the planets change places and
appearances over time so consider for
example the eye of heaven most scholars
prior to us just simply identified the
eye with the Sun and never thought twice
about it
Dave and I very early on discovered a
link with the planet Venus for example
ancient traditions around the globe
identified Venus as a tie
the same is true in certain ancient
languages like Maya and yet at the same
time we found that the planet Mars was
specifically identified as the pupil in
the eye and so as Dave and I thought
about this situation we quickly arrived
at the idea that Mars must have stood in
front of Venus whereas the smaller body
it would appear as a dark dot or pupil
inside the Venusian eye now of course in
today's sky Mars can't appear in front
of Venus since it's an outer planet but
Mars is significantly smaller than Venus
so if it could stand in front of us it
would present this image that we had
reconstructed of what the AI must have
looked like
so this finding this let's say
hypothetical finding early on it
generated a host of other deductions
Mars must have formed the axle of the
Venusian wheel Mars was the child at
Venus's breast as depicted in numerous
artworks of anna and isis we could
supply hundreds and hundreds of other
examples in none of those examples
however would the myth hold if Mars was
behind Venus like it is in today's sky
because of course you couldn't see it
you just see Venus so it has to be in
front of Venus so that's just one case
of countless dozens we're slowly but
surely we pieced together the evidence
and arrived at the conclusion that
during this particular phase in the
evolution of the polar configuration
Mars must have been in front of Venus
and thus closer to the earth than the
other planets
looking back on on our long relationship
I'm I'm firmly convinced that whatever
success we achieved and I'm confident
that our success is substantial and will
stand the test of time it required
endless hours of research detailed
analysis theoretical reasoning followed
by years of trying to model and
visualize this polar configuration
and it would have been difficult for
either of us to find success without the
input and insights and encouragement of
the other on this series we have
outlined the growing scientific evidence
that the catastrophic event is proposed
by Cochran and his colleagues did indeed
happen this includes the experimental
analogs achieved by electrical discharge
in the laboratory for countless
planetary features and of course one of
the greatest crises in space science
today is the astounding failures of the
standard theories of planet and star
formation as scientists discover
increasing numbers of quote impossible
exoplanetary systems the question of our
own solar system's origins in history
grows increasingly muddled
we asked f how he might address
scientists who have an unwavering faith
in our solar systems four and a half
billion year history well first and
foremost astronomers must give up their
collective fixation on the idea that
planets have moved peacefully on their
current orbits since the solar system
was formed billions of years ago that
dogmas long since become a fundamental
impediment to an accurate understanding
of the solar system's recent history
secondly I would refer astronomers to
Tony peratt's
groundbreaking researchers into the
celestial origins of the primary
patterns of prehistoric rock art as Tony
documented in great detail using his
vast knowledge of plasma under
experimental conditions the forms found
in ancient rock art are virtually
identical certain forms generated in
high-energy discharge experiments so for
example the ladder to heaven squatter
man the Queen cooks you could cite again
dozens and dozens of different
structural forms or quote symbols in the
final analysis
Tony's findings demonstrate that
incredibly powerful electrical magnetic
forces formerly played a significant
role in the history of Earth role in the
solar system and this is well within the
last 10,000 years and it's undeniable
that such events were catastrophic in
nature and provided much of the
inspiring imagery encoded in ancient
myth and religion and yet those
electromagnetic plasma forces are
nowhere seen in today's sky except in
the relatively diminutive rural images
you know that we occasionally get that
most people on earth don't even see just
within our lifetime the astronomers
opinions of Mars and Venus have been
forced to change just because of the
findings that have been coming in from
these various space probes so when Dave
and I originally were talking about
massive volumes of rock falling down for
Mars and and hitting the earth the
astronomers were unanimous in their
decision or in their idea that
meteorites or large rocks could never
get off the surface of Mars and yet now
we know that dozens of Martian
meteorites have indeed made their way to
the earth and similarly in in our theory
where Mars is growth is located during
the polar configuration relatively close
to the earth it stands to reason that it
had a more temperate environment during
that time possibly had a massive
atmosphere possibly had plenty of water
this naturally leads to the conclusion
that it could have had various life
forms and yet none of those things makes
any sense whatsoever if Mars has always
orbited countless millions of miles away
from the Sun where it's freezing and
water would never form and never flow
and it would be difficult to have an
environment like that an atmosphere and
so we believe that the water and the
atmosphere and if there were previous
life forms those were all extinguished
within the last 10,000 years Mars lost
its atmosphere it lost its water if it
indeed had it it obviously lost a ton of
its surface geology is Walland Dave of
documented
detail and so what is true for Mars is
also true for the planet Venus to some
extent Venus was a participant in these
unbelievably spectacular exchanges of
electromagnetic forces and so you would
certainly expect to see scarring on the
Venusian planet just like you see a ton
of evidence of scarring on Mars in our
view that didn't happen countless
millions of years ago at the dawn of the
solar system's history it happened well
within human memory so we fully expect
that when an if were ever ever able to
reliably date some of these geological
events it will it will stun the
astronomers of how recent this these
events were
[Music]
