give a brief hypothesis fundamentally
that the earth has been influenced by
electrical discharge it's not the only
thing that's been influenced by but how
can we quantify that so with that
background I'll have to talk about the
geological effects of running water it's
an important component of our past and
it still is measured today electric
discharges on dielectric media is
something we can do in the lab and as
you've seen in the past few talks
electric discharges are scalable it's a
fundamental aspect of these studies is
that what we do in the lab if we have a
source for it at the Galactic scale or
at the earth scale it can occur and we
can measure it you can't do that with
water that's the only drawback to water
you can only scale it a few orders of
magnitude in the laboratory and the
fractal analysis is a tool with which
we'll use to to measure these items so
I'll take you through how I measure some
of these landforms and compared them to
existing electric discharges so really
what is water water flows all over the
earth you can find many pictures of it
we know we can measure it to measure
what it actually does on the earth
electrical discharges however a little
bit different they have fractal patterns
they're somewhat chaotic but also
ordered in their discharge patterns I'll
show a few other pictures from capture
lightning they do a lot of great work
with these Lichtenberg patterns in
polyacrylic type resins and you get
these beautiful dendritic patterns so we
can actually measure these these items
in the lab and we'll talk about that a
little bit more so let's be honest how
many of you flew here right you look
over the earth you see some pretty
perplexing landscapes and now we can
view that on our laptops and we can
measure things on our laptops okay and
and myself as a chemist I'm a chemist
I'm not a geologist but I understand the
concepts behind some geology I was
wondering if the current geological
paradigm was missing something as I flew
over the earth I saw these tremendous
dendritic patterns and cratering and
mountaintops right next to flood plains
and other
different topological features so I I
was wondering okay we can talk all we
want about other mechanisms but if we
don't have a quantitative way to measure
that no one will hear us so is there a
quantitative relationship to various
topological aspects of the earth and I
believe there is and that's what fractal
analysis will tell us I'm from New
Jersey northern New Jersey it is more
than Newark Airport there are some
beautiful regions in New Jersey where I
live there are a lot of granite outcrops
a lot of very strange log backs that run
from the north to the west or north
northwest beautiful Lake Region that's
about ten square miles there on Google
terrain as we back out an order of
magnitude we see some interesting
aspects to to the topology we see our
Appalachian Mountains here that run
folded patterns supposedly these are
ancient mountains that have been eroded
away but right up butted against them
are dendritic patterns and cavern of
extensive canyons in central
Pennsylvania formed by water presumably
this butts up against the coast which
has been thought to be a floodplain and
there's beautiful Newark down there if
you back out more on the East Coast it
then comes up to the flood plains of the
Mississippi region Ozarks are down here
New Hampshire the Granite State granite
outcrops everywhere fairly high
mountains up there but again the
Appalachians stretch down throughout
Virginia and you have your Chesapeake
Bay there so in terms of scaling when we
back out from our small ten square mile
aspect we see some very unique features
at different scales we've already seen
in the past number of presentations
haven't been that many already that we
we can assume at least for the
hypothesis that the earth was bathed in
equilibration of electrical energy from
sun from the galaxy from other bodies we
don't know that was the past that is an
origins question that is a different
conversation but what we can do is we
can measure what's left over
and we can see if we can draw any
conclusions from that so in that sense
this is a slide borrowed from from wall
if the current is coming in on our
galaxy we are just a very small subset
of this again it goes back to scale
michael Claridge showed that so well
goes back to scale we are just a very
very small speck of dust on one of these
arms and if there is electric current
flowing through these arms it is
reasonable to assume that we've been
influenced by that in the past again
from walls presentation this is just a
local hypothesized environment of the
plasma solar system and where our
incoming charge is coming from from our
plasma pinch currents again look at the
scale the Sun is still but a small speck
on this overall space of things and then
from a size scale from a NASA view our
little blue dot of Earth here we are
very small compared to the Sun so it's
reasonable to expect that large changes
in the sun's output could influence us
dramatically now that we know were tied
electrically to it
we know that in recent years 1850s late
1850s a tremendous corona affected
telegraph lines blew out many of them if
such a corona what happened these days
we'd be in loads of trouble but we also
have to realize that electrical effects
are not the only effect many years of
very hard work by very smart people have
established certain aspects of fluvial
erosion erosion by glaciers it does
occur we can't deny that but on what
scale what is the order of magnitude of
a fluvial erosion versus a massive
electric thunderbolt brought about by
discharge across the Earth's atmosphere
so these discharges do exhibit daya
discharges cross dielectrics do exhibit
fractal type patterns and what is a
fractal many of you might be familiar
with a Mandelbrot set it's a very fun
whirlwind through YouTube if you zoom in
and it goes and in Peet repeats to
infinity no matter where you increase
your magnification on this set that's a
fractal it is the same as it is near as
it is from far so discharges across
dielectrics a dielectric being some sort
of
later exhibit these kind of fractal
characteristics so again the capture
lightning folks do this Marvis lee this
is a discharge across polycarbonate and
as if you zoom in to infinity you could
theorize down to the single electron
path in these dendritic patterns now
interestingly enough when when fractal
analysis started coming about Mandelbrot
pioneered this in the 70s and the 80s
published a book for fractal shorelines
and shorelines were the first to be
analyzed they did exam it's some sort of
fractal characteristics in this case
it's Chesapeake Bay we see our dendritic
pattern here and also some could be
brought about by flow of the rivers from
rainfall from constant season changes
but what are the main effects how much
of an effect does the flooville erosion
of a riverbed have versus an electrical
origin can we quantify that so that's
what we'll explore if you go walking
down the street or in a on a muddy path
and it rains the rain is going to fill
in the path it's that simple
we can see that every day so the
hypothesis is what if the earth did
experience these discharges which had a
profound effect on the topology of the
earth but now we're in under the
influence of a quiescent state of rain
snow erosion could these processes that
had already sculpted the earth influence
what we see in the rivers today now we
do know that floovio erosion happens we
can measure we've seen it in the earth
these are pictures from Alaska where you
see the snowfall actually freezing and
then melting and carving river channels
and then you have what's called Louvre
eel fans towards the bottom as the water
decreases its energy and dissipates as
energy it spreads out so this can be
measured but there are other places
where it does not happen so clearly
especially on Mars when you look at
craters the last electric conference we
had a wonderful tour of the Mars geology
and the big discrepancy here is that
these alluvial fans actually go downhill
so it's the wrong direction this is the
problem so this is the edge of the
Victoria crater so we would expect these
alluvial fans actually increase as your
fluids run down to the bottom of the
crater but that does not happen there
must be another mechanism in place
because it does not account for
flooville creation of these dendritic
patterns floovio patterns we know happen
again Google Earth thank you so you can
increase your magnification this is
Canyon Lake down in Texas they had a
river dam breach or not a river a lake
breach and you can see what happened to
the limestone the surrounding limestone
region you can then pixelate that and
visualize that and do some measurements
on it it's fairly linear go straight
downhill to the river where it feeds
into the river we know it's a flu view
pattern in the same way you can do that
on a Great Mississippi or I'm sorry this
is Mount st. Helens
I'll get the Mississippi another slide
the Mount st. Helens the eruption
happened the pyroclastic flow flowed
down to the near the lowest region you
can also quantify that pixelate it and
look at the flow of where it where it
occurred it also had some side channels
here that I forgot to put in now I get
on to flooville patterns right this is
like our Mossad down in Texas this has
been dammed so this has restricted the
flow of the river
over the course of time and what we see
in stark contrasts to an existing river
flow is the dendritic pattern of
occurring why does this occur because
you're changing the base level the base
level is an important fundamental aspect
of geology that says well water's going
to flow to the lowest level and if
there's an erosive layer there it's
going to eventually wrote it away and
create a new base level if there is a
level there that cannot be eroded away
that will be your base level so my
question is if this is an existing base
level and this is the river how did
these existing dendritic patterns form
if you increase your base level it's
going to fill in to what was already
there but those should have already
flowed from somewhere else into the base
level of the river so it's kind of like
a cat chasing its tail now and we're
trying to figure out how to do
found these factors in the same way you
can look at the Mississippi floodplain
this is a part of the Mississippi River
here in terrain mode and you see
extensive arrays of dendritic channels
especially in the Ozark region rolling
channels we have a rent driven through
Missouri it's just constant constant up
and down the problem here is if these
were all flooville as a result of
flooding they would also have the
similar drainage pattern to a base level
but they do not in the same way of this
had a base level we would see the same
dendritic patterns brought about by
constant flooding of the Mississippi in
the near pat and in your past we don't
see that these dendritic patterns
further do not drain to anywhere they
are they're on their own so this begs
the question what a brought brought
about these dendritic patterns and how
can we measure them in the differences
between them and the fluvial patterns as
I mentioned this concept of base level
in reading through some of the basic
textbooks on geology written by Tarbuck
say if you take an introductory geology
course over and over he says running
water is a single most important agent
sculpting the Earth's land surface that
is a constant mantra of current geology
and that's to be said because they have
come up with hypotheses as to how this
water erodes and some models that are
validated by experimental research the
major factors include your slope your
bed your some suspended loads the types
of materials your depth your width your
physical barriers and your rainfall
these can all be measured and modeled
this is introducing the concept of
design of experiments you have factors
which you can control or at least
monitor and then you have your responses
including your sedimentation what's
being brought down this slope by
rainfall or some sort of flood that gets
deposited on this new bedrock layer the
river flow the flow rate the erosion
rate how fast this sedimentary layer is
deposited in the new area so all these
factors can be measured and you can come
up with models
this in particulars from the Department
of Agriculture a general technical
report that people can use to measure
stream characteristics and because of
these extensive stream characteristics
and also rivers this applies to rivers
as well but it's not as many character
classifications because it's pretty
difficult to classify larger systems but
uh but you can see that the larger
slopes lead to straighter channels it's
a very fundamental sense lower slopes
lead to what's called meandering and
stream capture so these guys can capture
over here and then you can form other
circular regions and that happens all
the time along the floodplains and also
Delta's where the river runs out to its
current oceans and base levels so we
have these pictures and we also can
study what kind of erosion rates happen
with different types of sit of gravel or
base material but again it all goes back
to a certain base level it all has to
eventually flow to the lowest point
where it can get to so right now 47 plus
streams I think the the classification
of rivers is around 30 what does that do
for us for electrical discharges so now
on to discharge is simplified in one
slide so the charge build-up here if we
have two plates powered by an electrical
source we have an electric field that
builds up across the dielectric the blue
being a dielectric whether it be solid
liquid gas eventually it's going to
discharge if you get enough charge built
up that's why capacitors eventually
break the charge of cooler rates by
discharging across the path the factors
again we go back to the design of
experiments and monitoring what we know
in the system many things can influence
how this discharges your electrode
materials the type of electric the
potential of electricity there the
surface topology of these two electrodes
surface morphology etc etc small points
will increase the local electric field
there now the response is what do you
get out when this occurs much like a
lightning bolt you get magnetic fields
the current flow you get a full spectrum
of light anywhere from x-rays to visible
light you get heat manifested in heating
up the local surroundings and possible
nuclear interactions if it's strong
enough and you have pinch effects it's a
very very simplified version of
discharges but it enables us to measure
things in the laboratory so we can
monitor our factors we can measure our
responses and build models from them and
because electricity is scalable we can
assume that things scale up now a lot of
work has been done on fractal analysis
of dielectric discharges because this is
very important for the wiring cable
industry for those who make transformers
and power supplies okay so early on you
can see as early as 1990 1984 people
have been doing work on the fractal
dimensions of dielectric discharge and
and fundamentally what they found is
that they all possess a certain fractal
dimension that's characteristic of the
material so some of these include this
is actually an internet picture of a
discharge across a transformer unto the
insulator but these are from the papers
that I studied from cudos paper where he
measured them and he then measured the
diode the fractal properties of those
items typically they were performed in
high voltage discharges across solid
plastics or gaseous medium so now it's
quiz time some of you have seen this
already so don't cheat so I can tell you
there are three pictures here that I've
pixelated and turned into a binary
picture to illustrate the scalability of
electricity assuming that the Grand
Canyon was formed by electric discharge
probably not the only thing it was
formed by but let's just for the moment
assume a certain part of it is try to
match each letter with the particular
picture I'll give you a minute here so
we have orders of magnitude scale here
centimeters from a polycarbonate
discharge to meters of a discharge on
cement and then kilometres for the
canyon so everyone got their choices all
right oh I heard some off how many
people got be proud of yourselves how
many people got it right
just free cures all right okay
it's it's not that easy when things are
pixelated and you normalize everything
so what you're doing is you're
normalizing all of your particular
topography only that which you can see
in terms of what was formed by the
discharge and we'll come back to that in
just a moment so you can see here that
scalability is in effect so I thought
about how rivers are formed how
discharges could affect the surface of
the earth and I kind of dug it down to
the main effects here so what this is
cause it caused a diet this is a
cause-and-effect Ishikawa diagram they
call it we use this a lot to identify
problems in industry or whatever we're
working with so on the left here is
riverbeds how are they formed well the
hypothesis we know they're formed
somewhat by floovio events but they
could also be formed by electrical
discharges ignore this for the moment
technically you're not supposed to have
characterization tools in with this
diagram but I wanted to share this to
run parallel with these so the floovio
factors again the factors that influence
the floovio erosion of rivers include
the following you can have age
consistent in sufficient rainfall etc
you can read through these high slope
slope slopes at Cognex dissolve low your
suspended load all these factors and
then what I did is I kind of assign
categories color categories to those
that are measurable and testable by what
we can do in the lab or in the field
also red which is not testable it fails
the requirements to be a scientific
study
you cannot repeatably measure it and
also historical accounts because there
are a lot of historical accounts of
certain electrical plasma discharge
phenomenon which we now know so in terms
of the rivers I don't know if this color
is going to show up enough but but
really what I saw and you know we can
talk about this afterwards we disagree
but really tectonics and pre-existing
geology are the assumptions they're not
testable but nearly everything for
fluvial existing rivers can be measured
but you can't measure that which has
happening
past so that automatically eliminates
some aspects of this for electrical
discharge we had a few different items
here either a large solar outbursts or
close earth encounters with various
items you could probably come up with
some other factors here right but for
the most part we now know that there is
evidence of current in space right we've
talked about that a few times even in
the popular press
I shouldn't say popular but academic
press there is measurement of electric
current and scale Jets for coming from
about galaxies so it does occur in space
we can now use that as part of our
toolbox to say electric current is
scaleable we know what happens at the
Galactic scale for one component of this
jet we obtain for the first time a
determination of lactic scale electric
current and its direction this is an
Astro fixes physics journal okay so
that's encouraging
so from a factor
we know that compositional changes can
affect how electric discharge occurs so
you can see that all these things add in
to electrical discharge making it
somewhat of a feasible phenomenon we
have some historical sources from the
ancients and interplanetary distances
being less than they were than presents
I could be debated but but I do believe
we have some historical accounts of that
but anything that's inferred without any
drawing on any references it's inferred
breakdown in the atmosphere Thomas gold
and some others have said that you need
a flux of about greater than twenty
Gauss to have that discharge occur
across the earth so it could have
happened in the past now for
characterization the only things we're
missing here
anything that in terms of that draws on
the past geologic time scales and non
measured or kind of present is key to
the past because we don't know if that
riverbed was flowing as fast as it is
now especially if we can't find the
sediment load that it left over that's
an important aspect
so that's one way we can break down the
problem trying to visualize it as to
what factors are most important
I mentioned measurement methods here so
now we're going to get into what I
looked at a fractal is a self-similar
pattern in other words it's same as a
nearer as they are nearer as they are
from far very few things are perfectly
self similar in nature that means if you
increase your magnification all the way
they look the same as you back out most
of the time they're they're known as
self a fine in other words they're
scaled by different amounts in certain
directions
that's more the case with riverbeds but
certain at certain of them can be are
known to be self similar and there's
some separate tests you can do that that
I have not done yet now it's interesting
in all the research with riverbeds is
that it's really only confined river
networks that exhibit self-efficacy
regular flowing networks of rivers such
as a Mississippi and other large river
networks do not exhibit that so already
we're looking at the landform
confounding our analysis of this so the
landform is dictating how the river
flows so could we tested this similarity
between these measured fractal
dimensions of electric discharges and
what we know in the lab with landforms
that we know on the earth so taking it
back to the to the picture think about
the picture you can think about any
picture here that has a hole and then
rain or some sort of flow rate moving in
it's going to be captured so measuring
the fractal analysis of the earth as I
mentioned Mandelbrot did a little bit of
this in his book it's a great book I
think a trendsetter there he did a lot
of analysis of the coasts and now people
are taking that into three dimensions
and measuring some aspects of
geomorphology most recent I came across
a paper that I think is very powerful in
that it studied ISO lines at varying
altitudes and I'll show you what I mean
by that in just a moment so basically
they're taking fractal dimensions at
varying altitudes on the whole Earth's
surface because they have data for that
I'll read you a little bit of this the
quantitative analysis of natural relief
represents an objective form of aiding
in the visual interpretation of lands
games as studies on coastlines River
networks and global topography have
shown still an open question is whether
it clear relationships between the
quantitative properties of landscapes
and the dominant geomorphological
main wind water that originated them can
be established in this contribution we
show that the geometry of topographic
isolines is an appropriate appropriate
observable to help disentangle such a
relationship I haven't totally
disentangle it but they're getting
they're really into conclusions though
as I found it's kind of surprising a
more detailed inspections points to a
relationship between the observed
features and the geological processes
that shape the planetary surface we
suggest that the erosive action of a
solid or viscous phase the erosion of a
flowing liquid phase or its action
through wave breaking and tectonics are
geological agents which work towards
increasing roughness increasing
roughness in the landscape on the other
hand agent scalding sediment deposition
formation and pronounced smooth slopes
or erosion through hydrostatic pressure
glacials caused by large masses of
liquid or ice represents smoothing
agents is able to decrease the
characteristic fractal dimension the
rougher you are the higher the fractal
dimension the smoother you are the lower
the fractal dimension the problem I have
with this is that they're referring to
water doing the same thing that's how I
interpret that so typically what they
get on a map function of fractal
dimension D as you can see that 1.8 from
1 and you can see that mountains
obviously are the highest fractal
dimension ok drawn by the coastlines
which are fairly smooth due to wave
action and sediments on the layer and
then your Intercontinental I guess sea
floors and your trenches they also were
able to resolve I'll go and draw some
Cluj ins from this with the next graph
but really a study of isoline so what
basically what they're doing is they're
measuring a box counting relationship so
the measurement of your fractal
dimension D is a relationship a
logarithmic relationship with the number
of boxes that they can fill into a
certain area that's scaled the scaling
factor being ADA
so on this map of New Jersey okay
another beautiful region the congleton
preserve can fill in an area at a
thousand meters say in height you can
fill in that ISO line with a certain
number of boxes count them you then do
the same thing with a larger box
larger area or the different ISO line a
larger area of a different number of
boxes you can then get a plot so this is
from Baldessari's paper which I just
showed you and you can see that at
different elevations you have an
increasing the level as you increase
your elevation up to about 4,500 meters
that D level is that slope of this line
and interestingly below the C and right
at sea level you have very low fractal
dimensions brought about by flooville
erosion so again the the the fractal
dimension increases with your increasing
height and elevation I think that says
something about the mechanism of how
these mountains were formed so what did
I do in my spare time I took image J
which is a microscopy analysis software
a little bit worthy of a chart here I
apologize but I took the fractal
dimension by the box counting method
typically between 1 and 2 the areas of
each image was between 500 and thousand
miles squared I was able to get a
resolution of about one pixel per 125th
of a mile so you may say okay well these
are three-dimensional figures how can
you project them in the 2d in some of
the electrical studies they said that
hey this is valid as long as this
projection on a 2d plane has D values of
1.7 so the color coded datasets are from
flooville which are blue known
electrical events from the laboratory
and from literature papers and then
unknown structures from terrain mode
captures
the image processing you can accomplish
fairly readily requires a little bit of
footwork to get rid of some of the roads
and whatnot on Google Earth but you you
binary you grayscale it than you binary
it and you get this binary pattern which
you can then do your analysis on but
furthermore I skeletonize it because I
knew we were dealing with different
elevations so the pattern that this
follows right can be of elevation of
about 600 meters from the centre of this
channel up to the side so a way to kind
of normalize your overall patterning and
distribute it to only the branched
pattern is to skeletonize that so you
can do that with your software so
eventually what you're getting is only a
skeletonized pixelated version of only
the pattern and then you can measure
your your box counting Mint through your
box counting method your fractal
dimension so here's a picture of
Mississippi that was talking about
numerous floodplains here can pixelated
binary it you get a D value of 1.3 this
is up in Newfoundland you're getting a
value of about 1.7 even just with the
standard binary image a lightning bolt
again we're projecting this onto a 2d
which is valid again about 1.3 and again
this is limited resolution this is far
away you can't get all the little
dendrites that are coming off this so
that's one aspect that I think the
electrical analysis is missing and now
we can't resolve all those fine
dendrites except with some of the
laboratory tests that I took so a little
bit of statistics here so if you all
remember your students t-test 95%
confidence interval I'm confident that
this is different than that what this is
doing is because I have different values
of population sets it's a different kind
of students t-test so when I did that
with just the straight pixelated version
nothing was different and with the
skeletonized version some differences
that appear namely when you skeletonize
the landforms you don't have that
drastic of a drop in d value as opposed
from your river values
and indeed you get a very big
significant difference with that
skeletonized value because you're
normalizing all the elevation and what
happens here is the effluvia l've al you
decreases to about the same value that
Baldassare found in all the fluvial
erosion studies between 1 and 1.2 your
unknown structures that i measured on
the earth are equivalent to electrical
structures so statistically speaking the
unknowns are more statistically
dissimilar to flooville events than they
are from electrical events in the
laboratory so really what that
skeletonized value is doing is it's
normalizing the depth ok and we can say
that these structures are self
self-aligned these new values are fairly
high enough to be cell to fine so really
in conclusion the present data set
limited right now only 33 counts i think
i had i'm working on getting more is uh
I think electrical patterns are better
match towards our land forms and the
flooville patterns but we have to
realize that other data includes
flooville erosion because rivers have
been flowing for some time so we have to
account for that we have to know the
systems that we're measuring very well
to account for the fact that some
floovio Rochin may have occurred so it's
consistent with the literature trend
there's a lot to do there always is but
really what do what effects do such
discharges have on in the environment
right I'm interested in shock induced
changes that's something I do all the
time what is what does that do to Rock
and what does that do to populations of
organisms around that if it did occur
could that account for many mysterious
losses of populations of ancient
cultures was that do the temperature and
also radioactive decay that was already
mentioned earlier some profound
implications on geological sciences here
that we have to explore more so again
hopefully that further augment that data
set with more analysis and we'll have a
better picture of what's going on I'd
like to acknowledge a Michael and
Montgomery also for their discussions
got a copy right Google or so we won't
get sued and if anyone wants to contact
me there's my contact information you
happy to take any questions Thanks
you
