in the course of the Rosetta mission to
comet 67p the electric comet hypothesis
will face many scientific tests and the
tests can be continually reviewed as
Rosetta reports now to long-delayed see
the light of day the core concepts of
the electric comet involved two levels
of evidence one relating to the look and
behavior of a comet as we observe it the
other relating to a comet's origins
we've emphasized the electrical behavior
due to a comet's motion through regions
of different charge in the plasma domain
of the Sun Comet origins on the other
hand require a good deal more than
observation in our own time the electric
comet requires us to look back in time
to an epoch of planetary catastrophe
avoiding this would only mean losing the
opportunity to understand what a comet
really is this includes the connection
of comets to our own planet and to the
most awe-inspiring and terrifying events
in human history both levels of evidence
are strongly fortified by laboratory
experiments and it's these experiments
that help us to unify present
observation of comets with the
extraordinary ancient descriptions of
these bodies we understand that this
subject will bring discomfort to many
the idea of planetary catastrophe and
geologically recent times will never fit
comfortably with the overarching
assumption of theoretical science today
we call that assumption the uniformity
principle the idea that we can
understand the past through things we
see occurring now as today so before in
contrast the electric comet idea forces
us to consult the astronomical testimony
of our early forebears we're independent
accounts told with different words and
different symbols and in
different parts of the world convey a
story of planetary catastrophe glimpses
of that story are told in the
documentary symbols of an alien sky and
a second episode the Lightning scarred
planet Mars consider the latter
documentary and you'll understand why we
see the red planet as the first and most
logical candidate to investigate on the
matter of comets borne and planetary
catastrophe the ancient astronomical
traditions direct our attention to the
red planet as the source of fire and
stone hurled by a cosmic warrior God a
thousand different traditions present
this warrior figure in ways unique to
each culture but one feature in
particular consistently stands out the
identification of this warrior archetype
with the planet Mars we've said this
many times don't believe in coincidence
the subject here is a global human
experience whose logical implications
can be tested down to innumerable
details in this way consistent human
testimony will give us the answer to the
question how were comets born the
electrical investigation has been
underway for decades and the converging
lines of inquiry bring us face to face
with the planet Mars massive evidence
points directly to the excavation of
surface material and bedrock from the
planet comets are recent additions to
the solar system they were born in
events remembered around the world as we
intend to show clearly and definitively
the planet Mars was immersed in electric
discharge removing material up to
several miles deep and REE sculpting the
entire Martian surface with no regional
exceptions yes the claim is outrageous
but in the end everyone concerned with
the truth of the matter will be required
to look at the full range of facts as
evidence that means across all of the
disciplines that hold potential answers
as we continue to review the rosetta
mission will not lose sight of the human
story reminding us why comets were
anciently feared around the world as
symbols of planetary catastrophe
