welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts and
dot info astronomers today are puzzling
over the unexpected brightening of a
recently discovered comment on October
20th an observer in Japan noted that the
brightness of comet x1 linear was over
100 times greater than astronomers
expectations on October 21st astronomers
in New Mexico confirmed the surprising
outburst other cometary displays have
captured the world's attention in recent
years in 2007 the periodic comet home
17p stunned the science world when it
abruptly brightened by a factor of about
half a million making its coma
temporarily the largest object in the
solar system
astronomers attribute these cometary
outbursts to the sublimation of ices
from solar heating but does this
explanation fit with the facts why are
we surprised when comets flare up
unexpectedly I think the answer lies in
the fact that we don't understand comets
it's as simple as that
the story of comets is associated with
the story of the formation of the solar
system and the story of the formation of
the solar system is that once upon a
time story dreamt up centuries ago which
has merely been patched as new
information comes to light you would
have expected that close flybys of
comets and the capture of material from
the tail of a comet would have been
sufficient evidence to make people
consider some other alternative ideas
but this hasn't happened so we continue
to be surprised by comets now comets in
the electrical model flare up simply
because they are suddenly caused to
discharge either by a sudden change in
their environment brought about by
charged particles from the Sun suddenly
arriving or by a gradual change in
voltage as the comet approaches the Sun
or receipts from the Sun and that
voltage is impressed across the interior
of the comet because the comet in effect
acts a bit like a capacitor and if you
over stress a capacitor it explodes they
can
quite dangerous this is why capacitors
have a voltage rating on them so this
gives a very simple explanation for
these flaring x' and so on of comets but
it also explains why just recently an
asteroid produced a coma and a tail as
it swung around the Sun and asteroids
are not supposed to produce cometary
displays and the question there was how
do you machine all this head you get
this dust to come off the comet there's
no good answer to that in the standard
theory because that relies on
evaporating sublimating ices and so on
buried out of sight inside the comet
nucleus I say out of sight because when
you look at comets from images sent back
by spacecraft flybys and so on beginning
with Halle you see a surface which is
extremely dark darker than soot there's
no sign of ices generally there are some
white spots but the question is what are
those white spots they don't necessarily
mean ices and you also see sculptured
surfaces now if a body is just
evaporating in sunlight you would expect
to see a object that looks a bit like a
melting ice cream or you would expect to
see material coming off it in a cloud
Comet ologists also struggle to explain
the highly collimated Jets of material
that sometimes explode from cometary
surfaces what is seen from comets thin
filamentary Jets and there's some good
examples which are shown here now to get
guests to expand in a filament requires
a very finely machine nozzle so the
suggestion that material is being shot
from beneath the surface by expanding
gases doesn't make much sense the
standard explanation for these Jets is
that material is being sublimated turned
from solid ice to a gas beneath the
surface it punches a hole in the surface
and then emerges as a jet but these Jets
should be misshapen
instead of that we see highly collimated
Jets ones that are obviously under the
control of some external force to
maintain their integrity over vast
distances none of this fits any
explanation involving just heat and an
icy substance
in the sunlight why is it assumed that
the material that is sublimating from
comets according to theory is water ice
the answer is the hydroxyl radical it's
an oxygen atom in a hydrogen atom are
found in the comas of comets now the
standard explanation for that is of
course that the ultraviolet light from
the Sun which is quite intense breaks up
the water molecules into its constituent
parts one of which is the hydroxyl
radical the O H however ultraviolet
light will split water up into positive
ions it strips and electrons often
leaves positively charged parts of the
water molecule behind but some of the
earliest observations of comet nuclei
showed that very close to the comet
nucleus and this was found at comet
Halley there is an abundance about a
hundred times anything that was expected
of negative ions now negative ions are
produced in an electric discharge from a
cathode surface and this is what's been
discovered cathode Jets also create
highly collimated filaments all of these
things fit the observations none of the
standard theory fits the observations an
opportunity to test the explicit
predictions of the electric comet Theory
came in 2005 with NASA's Deep Impact
mission to comet Tempel 1 the test of a
new hypothesis is successful prediction
the more unexpected the better using the
electrical model of cometary activity I
predicted almost 4 years in advance that
is when it was announced that the Deep
Impact mission to comet Tempel 1 would
produce two flashes a small flash before
impact as the nucleus discharged to the
projectile rather like the spark
sometimes as you reach for a metal
doorknob amongst other things I also
predicted an unexpectedly energetic
flash to follow the impact I wrote back
then the energetic effects of the
encounter should exceed that of a simple
physical impact in the same way that was
seen with Comet shoemaker-levy 9 at
Jupiter after the event nasa expert
Peter Schultz suggested that the initial
flash indicates a layered structure for
the comet and I quote my guess is there
was soft layering on top the impact that
went down and finally got in contact
with Isis
this ad-hoc hypothesis of unbelievably
fragile outer layers is now treated as
an observational fact a confirmation in
the words of deep impact investigator
Michael Ahern notably however the impact
released very little water
however when temple one was revisited by
the Stardust spacecraft on February 15
2011 the expected crater showed no sign
of deep penetration the crater was
almost indiscernible as if the impactor
had hit solid rock or partially
vaporized before impact once again the
ad hoc explanations were weak by quote
stuff went up and came back down and I
quote again the crater partly healed
itself presumably by some magical effect
but a hard surface might have been
anticipated both from the Comets
appearance and much earlier evidence
from radar returns from comet Encke II
that implies a non-porous probably rock
surface material this gets down to the
fact that comets show a sculptured
surface the puzzling erosion of an
escarpment on comet Tempel 1 is simply
explained by the tendency of a cathode
spark machining to initiate on a sharp
edge and electrically edge or sputter
extremely fine material progressively
back from the edge the extreme fineness
of Comet dust was first remarked upon
following the encounters with comet
Halley because it wasn't expected of
interstellar dust grains
I suggest that the unexplained white
spots which are observed to a favour
such locations are active cathode arcs
and there's prior evidence for this
suggestion the prediction was made based
on the electric universe that the
outburst would be much more intense than
would be expected from a purely
mechanical impact and the discharge was
so intense that the expected images that
would be sent back of the comet crater
just did an event rating these
detectives were overloaded they just
could not film the surface of the comet
after the event the electrical model
says that if you introduce an object
which is at a completely different
charged state to the comet itself then
you will get an electrical outburst so
there was a large amount of electrical
energy involved also a few splatter
highly conductive copper vaporized
copper
near a charged object than the other
jets that happen to be on the surface of
that object at the time will suddenly
concentrate in the area of high
conductivity so I also predicted that
the Jets would move the ones that
existed before and that was also borne
out for continuous updates on space news
from the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
