okay what's the matter with matter at
the human scale it's something like a
rock you can hold it in your hand it
feels weighty it looks solid it has
sharp boundaries it has continuous
extension and definite location it's
there if you look at it through an
electron microscope the solidity is
mostly empty space there are a few dark
splotches scattered around that you can
call atoms of matter but you can't hold
them in your hand you can't weigh them
on your bathroom scale the boundaries
are fuzzy and trail off into the toe of
a probability curve the splotches don't
have definite locations they are merely
regions of increasing probability
function the idea of continuous
extension is nonsensical at this scale a
closer look shows that the splotches too
are mostly empty space calling them
matter is only analogous not homologous
atoms aren't really there you've entered
the realm of cognitive operations you've
entered the land of metaphor you've
entered you don't know what you're
talking about you're imagining things
by that I mean that you're making images
of sensations and concepts that you
judge to be unities and the images that
you're making have their roots in the
human scale of everyday life as a
materialist I must confess that I don't
know what matter is the closer I look
the more matter turns out to be not
there a field of view with an idea of
solidity hiding somewhere I think that
there must be some thing there but thing
is an idea a cognitive operation ideas
matter that the idea of matter is not
matter the idea isn't all there is to it
the pain in my shin when I knock against
the coffee table in the dark is not an
idea I don't imagine
pain its raw data that's given unbidden
and i hope i won't be given any more of
it only after i stop whimpering and try
to tell someone if only myself what
happened do ideas ideas of things like
coffee tables creep in if I were to be
consistently philosophical I'd
contemplate the question what else could
it be but while I'm seeing stars which I
presume are not part of the coffee table
idea I'm not interested in alternative
theories I only want one that will
enable me to avoid that batam of
experience in the future I don't care if
the theory is atomic or platonic I want
results
neurology studies show that even before
were born our cognitive operations are
operating by the time we're old enough
to study theoretical physics
we're in mid thought we're developing
and revising and replacing ideas that
came from we know not whence our
theories and their assumptions are far
from any foundation far from any
justification what we need all we need
our results not secured foundations not
settled assumptions science is
provisional its theories are true
provided the assumptions the initial
propositions are true or insofar as they
are true furthermore we're not aware of
many perhaps most of the assumptions we
remember if we've read in a history that
some of them have changed over time and
perhaps they will again science occupies
a middle position a mutable position a
mortal position it occupies a human
position we start theorizing at some
arbitrary location an intellectual
midair and immediately commit an excess
we lay a cornerstone intending to build
a cathedral of ultimate truth on it from
that high point our enterprise sinks
into conceit arrogance and absurdity if
we are made aware of that excess
may leap to a second excess of thinking
that if a theory isn't absolutely true
nothing is true and anything goes and
then we have the experience of pain in
our shins matter in the sense of pain in
our shins only exists at the scale of
coffee tables we don't stub our toes on
atoms or stars but we do understand
atoms and stars by picking out their
similarities with coffee tables matter
appears in mid scale and we build
metaphorical universes on it afterward
we make excuses and call those excuses
foundations confusing logic with pain we
know a few specific things for a little
while
geocentrism for 1,400 years gravity for
300 years plasma for who knows we know
enough to get us through the night so we
can struggle with it again in the
morning but we don't know so much that
we can take tomorrow off
