so he come to comets an electric
discharge model of comets was not even
on the table at the beginning of the
Space Age allowing astronomers to
embrace Whipple's dirty snowball model
as the scientific consensus but images
of comet nuclei show us God and created
rocky surface and usually you go by the
appearances if you haven't had a chance
to actually scoop some of it up in it
and examine it in the laboratory
meanwhile gravity measurements suggest a
comet is a fluff ball very low density
so what I'm suggesting is there is
something seriously wrong with consensus
understanding and I showed this slide on
the opening knife it's my opinion that
of all the bodies in the heavens perhaps
none will approve more definitive in
confirming the electric field of the Sun
than the comet because the cometary
display relies on there being a weak
electric field centered on the Sun it is
clear that at least by the second half
of the 19th century many scientists
believe that comet tails are
fundamentally electrical they looked and
they could see the commonality with
electric discharge experiments in low
pressure gas and they made the
connection for example in August 1882
English mechanic and world of science
wrote of Comet tail's there seems to be
a rapidly growing feeling among
physicists about the cell flight of
comets and the phenomena of their tails
belongs to the order of electrical
phenomena and there are other papers
from that era that I could easily add to
that when comet Halley was flown first
it was a surprise because the nucleus
was found to be blacker than a lump of
coal it the some of these small rocks
have comas larger than the Sun and the
material that was coming off the comet
instead of just sort of evaporating it
was coming out in jets
was unexpected and some of these Jets
also were on the dark side now if it's
supposed to be formed by the heat of the
Sun you did not expect to see jets on
the dark side
it had complex cratered surface once
again if you're just a blighting
material in the heat of the Sun you
would expect it to look more like a
melted ice cream than a cratered surface
they exhibit layering and we've also
having sampled the tail of a comet found
high temperature minerals just like
meteorites it was discovered by accident
that they emit x-rays and x-rays our
signature of an electrical discharge
pure and simple
comets explode for unknown reasons well
in the electric model that's simple if
you're discharging the body and that
body is an electorate and has an
internal electric field the process of
discharging that comet will build up
stresses within the comet rather like an
overstressed capacitor which will
eventually explode and that's what we
see this is the astronomers jet model
and it's the most fanciful thing you
could imagine here we have jets coming
out of orifices you know vertically from
the surface if you imagine a rough
surface and ice trying to escape from
underneath you don't expect it to come
out like that it can come out at any
angle
in a fan you do not get highly
collimated jets and of course we've
comet Hartley 2 we said the Jets drag
water ice out of the nucleus producing a
comet snowstorm this is one of the
things that's puzzle of astronomers is
how you get such a tremendous volume of
very fine dust it's in fact when healthy
was first flying past they couldn't
believe the fineness of the dust there
was an answer to that when heat from the
Sun reaches the pocket of dry ice this
is the explanation of the traditional
one Fulford instantly transforms from
solid to vapor forming a jet wherever
local topography happens to collimate
the air rushing you guessed now the
local thermography fog rafi will not
column out the address with rushing gas
unless it's a perfect really perfectly
cylindrical event apparently these cio
carbon monoxide jets are carrying chunks
of snowy water ice along for the ride
and this is the story it's more or less
a fairy story now comet built two shows
similar surface etching to that of an
electrical discharge machine EDM surface
which you see below in fact common bill
two had a thing called the footprint on
it which you can see down to the lower
right of the comet nucleus and at the
top of the EDM he means you can see a
small footprint if you like in the
surface which has been etched by an
electric arc so the similarities are
obvious it was said in the report from
the scientists it is not clear by
sublimation process is driven by solar
illumination on a spinning body would
form globally distributed circular
structures of course it's not however
electric discharge dude for globally
distributed circular structures
unresolved bright spots seem to be
connected with the Jets from the nucleus
and this is the same kind of thing as
happened on Jupiter's moon Io there were
spots bright spots which burned out the
cameras in which were colored in by NASA
as lava because that's what they
believed it was so these unresolved
bright spots are probably the are cut
down points
