welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info human beings around the world today
are looking at planets in an entirely
new light the electric universe offers
new theoretical possibilities for planet
formation and planetary science
experimental research with electrical
discharges and electric fields has
created new horizons for understanding
the visible features of planets our
neighbor Mars is the source of many
ongoing mysteries for planetary
scientists as Professor and Mars
investigator Phil Christiansen recently
stated there's a lot of knowledge and
not so much understanding the most
stupendous feature on Mars is Valles
Marineris the great trench stretching
more than three thousand miles across
the Martian surface in the 1970s the
engineer Ralph juergen's first proposed
that Valles Marineris is the scar left
by a giant interplanetary lightning bolt
if these events did occur can they be
replicated in experiments on earth
within the electric universe community
this challenge is now being met by those
exploring the theory of planetary
electrical scarring recently geologic
researcher Michael Steinbach ur an
experimentalist Billy Albertson have
collaborated to replicate the complex
conditions that might have been present
in an epic of planetary instability
today Michael and Billy provide an
introduction to their collaboration
including Billy's recent reproduction of
Valles Marineris it was some time ago
that mark Spann gave me a call and told
me about this friend of his named Billy
Yelverton and how I had to contact him
he was doing all these experiments it
reflected well on what I was proposing
so I called Billy we hit it off right
away we just seemed to enjoy each
other's company and talk and he's been
doing experiments using electricity
seventy thousand ninety thousand volts
moving material and the idea is he can
kind of replicate what's described in
worlds in collision what took place
sometime within the last 10,000 years
and there's descriptions of all of this
dust
and how it's being blown around by
incredible winds and making formations
so Billy started originally removing
material from the bottom of his chamber
and it would reorganize it and it was
really interesting it made what looked
like circular mountain formations in
many instances and I kept bugging him
Billy can you please drop the dirt from
above instead of lifting it from below
so it might be more similar to what's
what was happening he graciously figured
out how to do this he got a box of dust
and a screen fine screen and heat a
vibrator and he vibrates the box and the
dust falls from above in a very
controlled manner while he has an
electromagnetic event taking place both
blow and the first one he did happened
to be the day that Ben Davidson was
visiting the suspicious observers Ben
Davidson and lo and behold they start
talking about how this reminds them of a
barred spiral galaxy and it starts to
have features that are fairly similar to
Valles Marineris and it's creating one
side larger than the other I think the a
notice is concentrating the dust faster
than the cathode it might be the reverse
Billy knows and there's an area in
between it's kind of resembles the
canyon but it's not being excavated it's
being prevented while this event is
happening surrounding it and later if he
did one with a water element that
prevented accumulation while you have
formations growing around it and I sent
it to a friend of mine at Princeton
actually the gentleman who introduced me
to Velikovsky in 1970 and he saw this
and he goes this guy Billy Alpert it's
incredible you have to find him and meet
him and I said he's my friend he's my
buddy and he couldn't believe that of
like 7 billion people on the planet I
happened to somehow hook up with this
savant who's able to do things on a
shoestring in his backyard
baking things that seemed to be
replicating catastrophes
and really recently and he's continuing
to evolve and change and shift I make
recommendations and he does him and it's
just like a dream come true I can't
believe how lucky I am
Billy Albertson has been if I was
religious a godsend
he's been beyond my wildest dreams
and everything seems to be pointing into
a process of accumulation these
catastrophes be caused by dusty plasma
electromagnetically organized and
concentrated it all started with the
Thunderbolts without a contest or
dendritic Ridge formations and up until
that time had done quite a bit with
electricity but not really into the
geological realm there and so we started
out with the lightning bolt and of
course you know we create a perfect
crater with a raised rim and you know
all the features that you see with the
with a collision we can perform
identically if not better with a with a
lightning bolt electric arc mode
discharge
however down the road as we continued I
I noticed that the dielectric properties
had more to do with it than conductive
anodes and cathodes so to speak and so
we tried some acrylic sheets and glass
sheets laid down on top of a conductive
iron cathode and we started with anodes
above that with some material like clay
we used told the mind and all different
types of sand and in pottery clay as
well as you know Georgia clay right out
of the ground and we found that this
dark mode discharge turned out to move
and create more motion than any of the
conductive type discharges over
conductive areas and though that turned
out to be quite astonishing we were in a
lot of it in AC voltage and DC voltage
and turns out that with with the with
the AC voltage you can put one electrode
whether
be handled cap you know well the basis
actually doesn't really matter with a
single overhead electrode we could get
incredible amount of motion across a
sheet of acrylic with the that resembles
you know what is described with the
thunderbolts as EDM electric discharge
machining and after that we went into
the DC voltage and found that with just
a single overhead anode or cathode we
would not get those same type of motions
so we had to play around there a little
bit so we figured out that we if we
placed anode and cathode above a neutral
base then we got everything back youth
all these motions start coming back to
the table of you and yeah was until
talking with Michael and of course if
anybody knows Michael he's he's quite a
persistent fellow there so you know it's
if you want to get him off your back you
just well go ahead and try some of these
things he encouraged me quite a bit
though and from there it was just very
much incredible he was wanting to try
and blow the dust up or maybe lift it up
with a fan or some sort of you know
blower to get the the dust up into the
atmosphere and I thought well why don't
we you know if he you know read worlds
in collision if we just you know put it
above it if we could place a reservoir
above the discharge you know table and
shake it out so made a little wooden box
and put a screen on the bottom of it and
we attached a little small vibrating
motor or the speed control to you know
control the amount of dirt that fell and
lo and behold this uh this perfect death
shape bar spiral will show up and it's
very consistent that happens every
single time there every time you put it
down there it's pretty incredible
for continuous updates on space news
from the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
