welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info on Friday March 6 the NASA Dawn
spacecraft entered the orbit of the
mysterious dwarf planet Ceres with a
craft scheduled to begin sending images
to earth in April for several weeks
surprising and unexplained bright spots
within a crater on the planet's surface
have generated enormous buzz in popular
media the very limited speculations on
these mysterious bright spots have
ranged from exposed ice to water vapor
to salt flats or even a quote volcano
like feature on the tiny planet it's
interesting that Ceres which was once
classified as an asteroid has no nearby
gravitational influences to create tidal
heating which might generate the plumes
the mechanism planetary scientists have
used to try to explain the so called
volcanic plumes on the Jovian moon Io
recently planetary geologist Emily lacta
Wallow reported on the theory of at
least one scientist that the bright
feature on Ceres is a form of so-called
outgassing lacta Walla writes as Sarah's
his globe rotates and the 80 kilometer
craters rim rotates into view that rim
should block our ability to see the
bright feature on the floor of the
crater
however the bright feature is already
visibly bright as the crater begins to
rotate into view therefore it must be
vertically above the rim of the crater
it must be some kind of plume it's
interesting that so-called outgassing is
also the mechanism that astronomers
frequently cite when attempting to
explain the astonishing spectroscopic
readings of comets and vast distances
from the Sun where the environment is
much too cold for solar warming to
sublimate the Comets invisible
theoretical subsurface ices countless
comet mysteries might finally be
resolved if scientists were willing to
entertain electrical discharge activity
on a comet as noted in several recent
space news episodes the discovery of
greatly enhanced
electron fluxes close to the nucleus of
Comet 67p is a confirmation of the
electric comet theory which states that
a comet will emit electrons as its
discharged activity increases the
visibility of the plume vertically above
the rim of a crater and the location of
the brightest of the two bright spots at
the center of the crater are not a
coincidence if electrical arcing is
happening on Ceres in electrical
discharge experiments we routinely see
central craters or central Peaks that
match precisely countless puzzling
craters seen on planetary surfaces
so-called bull's-eye craters which are
craters with central craters within our
long-standing puzzle for planetary
scientists we note that immediately
around the crater with the mysterious
bright spots we see what appear to be at
least two such bullseye craters consider
the side-by-side comparison of the
surface of Ceres and a picture of anode
crater formation in an electrical
discharge machining process the electric
universe theory states that craters seen
on asteroids comets and planetary
surfaces are primarily the result of
electrical discharges at a vast variety
of scales the opportunity may now exist
for scientists to witness the active
electrical excavation of a planetary
surface such a process on an
electrically active comet has already
been witnessed dramatically on comet
Tempel 1 prior to the Deep Impact
mission in 2005 scientists had suggested
that the comet nucleus lost about one
third of a meter of depth in each orbit
when the star does next spacecraft
reimaged the comet nucleus in 2010 it
found that the wall of the most
prominent Mesa had astonishingly
retreated dozens of meters the
excavation of material appeared to be
precisely focused at the location of the
mysterious pixel saturation which
according to proponents of the electric
universe was the focal point of electric
arcs we note it is still too early to
form any final conclusions about the
nature of the bright spots on Ceres and
we eagerly await images from the dawn
spacecraft in
Perle however has repeatedly
demonstrated on this series space news
from the electric universe theoretical
models based on the notion of an
electrically sterile in disconnected
solar system have resulted in continuous
surprises and unexplained mysteries the
electric universe theory states that
both comets and asteroids will
experience varying degrees of electrical
stresses depending on their orbits and
will electrically discharge in response
to a potential difference in their
plasma environment given that the solar
wind is primarily composed of protons
representing a positively charged region
of space it is only appropriate to
consider the effects of this potential
difference on commentary and asteroid
'el activity we suggest it is inevitable
that this possibility will begin to
creep into mainstream astronomical
literature consider the 2011 paper of
the russian scientist in the dog
entitled space observations of comets
during solar flares while the paper does
not include the electric universe
concept of electric circuits in space it
does describe a capacitor like breakdown
occurring between a comet's charged sub
surface and a differently charged
surface due to arriving protons from the
Sun it Madhab writes an irradiation of a
certain class of comet nuclei having
positive brightness correlation with
solar activity by intense solar cosmic
rays fluxes of high-energy protons and
positive ions ejected from the Sun
during strong solar flares can possibly
produce impulse and gamma hard x-rays
due to high voltage electric discharge
in the subsurface layer of the comet
until recently the dwarf planet series
was officially classified as an asteroid
and in recent years scientists have
acknowledged that the distinctions
between an asteroid and a comet are
increasingly unclear as noted in a 2013
space news episode astronomers were
stunned when the asteroid P 2013 P 5
suddenly produced six comet-like tails
the asteroid has since been officially
reclassified as a main belt comet
the ad-hoc theory some scientists have
proposed is that an increase in the
asteroid spin rate caused dust material
to fly off into space where it is
stretched and confined by solar
radiation in a recent scientific paper
astronomers have also proposed that an
increase in the spin rate of the
asteroid P 2012 f5 actually caused the
asteroid to explode however we suggest
it is not a coincidence that comets also
suddenly disintegrate
even at remarkably vast distances from
the Sun much too far for solar warming
to cause the explosions are the bright
spots on Ceres electrical in nature
while it is again too early to form any
final conclusions we do make the
following prediction with great
confidence all theoretical models that
fail to recognize the planet as a
charged body will only result in further
surprises and confusion for forthcoming
updates on NASA's Dawn mission to Ceres
stay tuned to space news from the
electric universe for continuous updates
on space news from the electric universe
stay tuned to Thunderbolts dot info
