it is been a journey this last year and
a half I do have a lot of material to
cover I recognize that there's some here
that are new and I need to honor that
and those who are quite involved in the
project so Sapphire a sense for Solar
atmospheric function in regulation
experiment and dr. mark cleric Paul
Anderson wal thornhill Don Scott and
others are here on the what I call a
core team and a job is really to
evaluate the possibility is it possible
to do an experiment is it feasible as a
viable is it capable and those are words
that we use in designs of experiments
and kind of an analytical perspective
when we progress with an experiment okay
because this is what I would call
classical science it's not theoretical
its classical so we've got to break all
the natural philosophy down and we've
got to take a look at the opinions of
suppositions two models two concepts and
see whether or not it's possible to test
hypotheses you see and that's really the
kind of work I've done for the last 35
years
so Safire I'm just gonna get on with it
here as quickly as I can
these are some of the older guys kind of
come and gone that are you know we look
into to see you know if there's there's
a basis for the work that we do so we
always build on the shoulders of others
and it really kind of goes back from
what I can see to guys like Sir Isaac
Newton who was looking at spectroscopy
as well you know he wouldn't might have
used that word in gravity of course
Heinrich Geissler was really kind of I
would say the grandfather of the neon
tube the gas discharge we move on to
William Crookes which his experiment of
throwing rubies into a vacuum chamber
and watching them radiate regardless of
their their opacity brilliant red
was quite remarkable and I would say
probably the first plasma spectroscopy
type of experiment although he may not
have said this but observations um of
course Kristian Birkeland you know we
just kind of build you know on each
other's work as that as years go on and
we'll get into his his working more
depth as we we proceed here
nikola tesla's well somebody say well it
has not much to do with it but obviously
his work was based on others and the
research and we know what today what you
know what's coming off his work hands
often I'm not gonna speak too much about
this because we all touched on his work
earlier off waves which NASA and you
know many others refer to with respect
to their study of the Sun ah
Rolf your guns I think is probably the
one in my opinion right now that dr. Don
Scott's work is based on which would be
the first I guess more comprehensive a
quantitative evaluation of what the Sun
looks like as a circuit and then so you
can see down here in I just you know
quick picture of Don Scott's model here
ok so this is our team there's a great
there's a core team as I mentioned
before there's Donald Scott as well
Farah hill paul michael jim writer
forest bishop David tell but Susan and
Mark and then there's others that we
resource um you know try to gather them
in so the idea behind this is that I
build a team a diverse team of various
disciplines because the idea behind it
is we want to find out if the experiment
is going to fail we don't want to spend
money if we have any opportunity for
failure you see or holes in the
experiment so that's why we want a
diverse team so stellar atmospheric
function and regulation experiment what
I want to do is kind of move into
quickly the overview which is phase one
exam as a contemporary plausible stellar
atmospheric process concepts that
includes gravitational and electric
process capability
and concept viability determine if a
design of experiments method is
applicable now I know that some of these
terms here may be new to some of you but
those who are into experimentation would
understand very quickly what design of
experiments and how powerful that is
it's a fairly recent tool in the last
maybe 60 years to obtain a very high
confidence level of analysis of a
process okay I'm just want to leave it
there we can talk about that maybe one
on one later on
so gravitational electric process
capability phase two examination of the
electric Sun concept prior to
experiments and observations phase three
quantify stellar atmospheric function in
mathematical terms we may leave that as
we as we move through this as there some
changes now the challenge is
experimental limitations design failure
modes and effects analysis and phase
fours examine the experimental options
the plausibility feasibility viability
and capability and that that doesn't
just apply to whether or not we can
replicate the phenomenon in a laboratory
experiment but it also means the means
by which we measure are they capable do
we have a standard no theoretics nor
theoretical models no extrapolations no
interpolations no mathematical
adjustments of the data do we have a
ruler that we can actually all agree on
that's a standard that's capable you see
of giving us consistent measurements so
it's vital because otherwise it's up to
anybody's idea as to what you know the
results are going to return and it's
something that we deal with all the time
in science right it's a it's a bit of a
challenge so evaluation of prior
experiments determine if if they're
viable candidates so we can build on
those you see is there is a precedent
for this determine if prior experiments
require augmentation to thoroughly test
the hypothesis and we're going to find
that there is evaluation of contemporary
merit illogical capabilities determine
if the experiment is feasible so all
these things have to be addressed right
upfront before we even start spending a
nickel because I won't do it you know I
mean I spent millions in our idea over
the years
and you have to evaluate you know before
you get into it especially if you have
shareholders okay
so phase five engineering design and
construction of the experimental so
Louis I want to thank Rennes for that
word because it's a lot I mean small son
the u.s. is masculine not sure why but I
suppose you could tell me why it's
masculine the earth is I guess feminine
so I probably dates back some time but
these are these are the disciplines
right we want all the disciplines all
with distance is applying in these
models face sex execution of the
experiment using a design of experiments
methods phase seven evaluate evaluation
and reconciliation of the test results
mathematical predictions and real solar
data and now this is really what we're
after right here now the design of
experiments methodology does not allow
for sanitization or sanitizing of the
data the actual data feeds back into the
experiment and you need that to develop
your methods to identify what factors
are the primary factors associated with
the phenomena okay and maybe now you can
see after Poul Anderson's work why he's
on the team you see so
hertzsprung-russell diagram has told the
other day this is an old diagram but
nevertheless it's something that we're
all familiar with or many of us are
generally it's used to take a look at
the evolutionary lifecycle of a son or a
star I look at a little differently and
from my perspective I look at a process
and this is really important that we
understand that what this means is that
we have an extremely extremely stable
universe electrically if we take a look
at the luminosity the spectral signature
and temperature under the three hundred
billion stars that we have in our galaxy
there may be a few supernovae but
generally out of the 300 billion they're
not they don't vary they may be quite
violent in themselves but generally
extremely extremely stable enough for a
person
doing experimental work that is like a
lifesaver you've got a process that is
already under control you're not trying
to identify the factors or the causes of
reason why something is out of control
okay if you're making hamburgers and
they're bad every other day you got to
find out what's wrong with them but in
this case you know we're making 300
billion hamburgers and there's only one
or two that are bad so it would say that
however you're making hammer is it
probably pretty stable you know you know
what you're doing so when we look at it
from a process not an evolutionary
perspective it draws a it's quite a
quite a different picture so it means
that we only have point zero zero one
star per million that change from the
normal DV you know from the normal curve
every year so from a statistical
perspective it's an extremely stable
situation and that's just that's just
great news for anyone who's studying
this process okay so we have two
candidates one is the nuclear concept
you know there's the electrical concept
as we know the electrical concepts based
on gravitational model by which elements
are compressed to such a state that
nuclear reactions occur fusion occurs in
the core of the star as result of
complex processing whatever those
complexities are and they are really
really complex from a mathematical
perspective and just so you know when I
did my first evaluation in January last
year I found numerous disparities with
the gravitational model and came to the
conclusion myself personally
it's none testable it's non testable
model okay I I don't know how you could
test it with so many so many problems
with it now the electric concept on the
other hands electric universe concept
claims that luminosity spectrum and
thermal differentials are the result of
intense plasma discharge behavior
beginning in the diffuse Corona and
terminating in the denser Solar
ionosphere okay now what that means to
me is that we have two factors two
primary factors we have incoming charged
plasma affecting matter of a different
electrical potential and that's it
period
that's great this is a model of the Sun
as standard model of the Sun and we've
gone over that's almost being real time
on it because I've got we're gonna get
into the experiment and what we're doing
this is the model of the electric Sun
and it's basically incoming charge
plasma to a body of a different
electrical potential in this case here
the Sun is positive the incoming charge
is coming from our heliopause or the
source of electrons which is negative
for a cathode from an electrical
perspective and that's the model so we
want to talk about some of the features
spicules there's a lot of literature on
this from slore Dynamics Observatory got
McIntosh in the National Center for
Atmospheric Research published in nature
article he says the that looked very
similar to Kristian Birkeland torella
experiment results that were obtained
over a hundred years ago hmm interesting
so this is NASA okay so they're
recognizing that they don't starting to
look at and I respect these people I
know there's some that have issues but
myself personally you know we put men on
the moon they've done a lot of things I
think there's a very very intelligent
people but I think that with all of us
including myself if I have an assumption
that may not be correct I can trigger
now on the wrong path pretty quickly and
it can cost a lot of money so these
society there's a picture a hundred
years ago looks very very very similar
and we're going to examine these more
more detail shortly
so Kristian Birkeland if the globe is
slightly magnetized slightly the patches
of eruption are seen to arrange
themselves in zones with long pencils
issuing into space almost as in figure
the picture I showed you only these
pencils are bent by the magnetism which
is exactly analogous to what we have
assumed regarding the cathode rays
issuing from the Sun okay now wall
showed you this picture earlier so I
won't play the point but you know these
are quite remarkable it shows that
branch discharge issuing from the spot
sometimes follows the magnetic
lines of force in the neighbor
neighborhood of the equator giving rise
to a phenomenon which greatly resembles
the black filaments of the Sun studied
by Hale element Fox these these are
these are fellows that were studying
astrophysics boxes in his time so he
wasn't just working on his own he had
friends that were what we would call
modern-day astrophysics or physicists at
the time this is a modern NASA Marshall
Space Flight Center from David Hathaway
they believe this is due to acoustic you
know is it Genesis that the super
rotation senior granular rotation of the
of the atmosphere of the Sun around its
equator I have a different and you have
a different perspective of why that's
occurring and if we take a look at the
picture wall shows earlier this is quite
remarkable from my perspective I look at
it a little different than you all does
but more what's really notable about
this is the actual rotation of the
plasma torus but the predominance in
this area here this is spinning around
the Sun the counterclockwise direction
that's correct right
well it's counterclockwise I do this
yeah and now we have the EU model if you
see here we have incoming charge bottom
I'm not sure why that is but I know it
appears that that is what is occurring
but we have this mania increase main
current increase in strength about its
equator it's interesting because this
isn't Brooklyn's work this is Quinton
fioretto in March 1967 when they were
studying plasma discharge for they were
looking to - what it takes to actually
bring plasma instability they weren't
looking at any comparisons to what we
see occurring in the planets or the Sun
itself that was interesting in the paper
is the predominance of this Taurus at
forum that was spinning around spinning
around the globe you see they weren't
looking for this we're trying to find
out how we can stabilize it the problem
of course is that these are fairly
granular pictures they're just the
black-and-white there's not really been
much examination from the electrical
properties which is what sapphire is is
looking into CME's berkland currents
coronal mass ejections what's
interesting here if I can
is this predominance here if you could
see the spiral shape in this ejection
and take a look at what occurred with
their Tarawa in 1967 and their
experiment here you see and they're not
the only ones I mean these types of
phenomena are being recorded by others
who have conducted Torrell experiments
around the world in Norway in
Switzerland and you know Brooklyn of
course and and others dear assuming this
stellar arcing or what is called today
sympathetic flares but really to break
it right down or we're saying that
there's Cimiez that are occurring on
either side of the Sun at the same time
so for those of you you know we're
thinking about relativity and speed
light and time and things just let that
soak in for a second because it means it
means they were measuring this we don't
understand it but it can't be happening
instantaneously so we'll call it
sympathetic arcing but in fact it's
happening concurrently within
milliseconds of each other and this is
something that was observed by mister
berkland the discharges opposite points
this is not clearly seen because it's a
still photograph however brought to my
mind a very strange picture of some
enormous eruptions on the Sun reproduced
from marbles of the universe from some
of this astrophysics guys his friends
okay so we have some CME's we have mr.
burr clones experiment boy there lookie
visually they look very very close don't
they you see and we take a look at
you know the typical dark filaments that
he called you know erupting from the Sun
here's a picture of what his friends
were able to procure from their cameras
and their imagery from you know a
hundred years ago concurrently you see
now they couldn't measure it to be
concurrent it's like wow this is like
happening at the same time but now we
have instrumentation is saying well
they're happening within milliseconds of
each other so sapphire was result
expectation now what this is pointing to
is the things that we're gonna be going
after we're going to be looking for ion
acceleration now from my perspective I
do physics I do engineering I do
consulting and that's what I get paid
for and I'm gonna tell you right now I
accept that it takes a force to cause
something to accelerate we all know that
but what forces that I can see if you
know if there's a coronal mass ejection
it's possible that maybe the particles
can maintain their velocity that's for
me a little difficult to to handle I
would expect them to decelerate but I
sure would never expect them to
accelerate as you know as they leave the
Sun it's just not you know they don't
start to expedia should they should do
that but they do okay so does this
happen well as a matter of fact it
appears that it does happen in normal
plasma discharge stellar coronal mass
ejections are a normal characteristic to
this process of plasma discharge upon
matter what we've already seen in some
of the photographs these types of
discharges within the Tarawa so we'll
expect to see those things solar
photosphere tufting granulation can be
expected so tufting means and we're you
know we're going to end up with intense
plasma charge on the surface we've seen
some of the pictures earlier okay now
we're just talking visual right now but
we have got to a point now we can
actually go in and measure these things
electrically and spectrally and this is
the key to success at fire success or
it's you know as we move forward here
stellar photosphere nuclear fusion
vortices within the photosphere Tufts
could be expected while those who are
familiar with chickens know that there's
calcium and every one of their eggs and
there must be people have come to
conclusion that there's fusion occurring
within a chicken so does it have to be
millions and millions of degrees where
does the calcium come from you know they
keep laying these eggs but the calcium
doesn't appear to be coming out of their
bones so you know calcium we know as
being one of the beasts one of the
elements right you know so where is this
coming from so is it possible we'll see
fusion you know I'm kind of excited this
would be really cool you know so stellar
a photosphere nuclear fusion vortices
within a photosphere tufts can be
expected Wow so a cellular photosphere
cooler than a corona can be expected
well I've four grandsons and I find this
quite remarkable because this is really
getting closer to what turned me on to
the EU because you know where the gamma
rays you know it's a nuclear explosion
just well there isn't many so why is the
photosphere cooler well my grandson
knows the closer I get to a match you
know the hotter it gets and I could tell
you he's like a burnt finger you know so
why is it cooler but but this appears to
be a normal phenomenon of a plasma
discharge hmm so my perspectives
starting to add up to an electric model
photosphere ik stability and contrast at
higher level Asia higher elevations
higher frequencies can be replicable in
this model as a natural result of double
layers formed within a stellar discharge
with instability at higher frequencies
so we're going to be getting of that a
little bit later not too much detail
here cyclic magnetic variation results
from varying direct current electrical
supply to a star the charged quasi
neutral plasma interacting with
positively charged body will exhibit the
same characteristics regardless of
stellar material and this is really what
I was saying my first paper I don't
really care what a star's made out of
the spectrum is just an indication of
the predominant elements
okay so you can and that goes right back
to crooks work he stuck some rubies in
there lit up Brett
you know he's took some green cheese
maybe it'll come up with some other
color but the bottom line is that every
element is going to start radiating a
particular spectral color depending on
what you know I guess order magnitude
the discharge it's being exposed to you
know ice cream will probably melt but
you know there's other elements in there
that I think we're going to go after and
this is where the spectroscopy comes in
and you're going to find that the
technology today is available to us to
really really examine these things in a
significant resolution in detail so
sunspots the complex behavior due to
varying cosmic discharge in magnetized
body similar tennis arc generation to
different points can be expected so
we're going to expect a number of these
things to occur in the experiment
