the comet 67p churyumov-gerasimenko will
be in the news for several months and it
has the potential to spark extensive
controversy issues could range from
electric fields in space to solar system
history and the history of earth itself
a bedrock assumption in the modern
science of comets is the claim that the
nucleus of every common harbors water
ice along with frozen carbon dioxide and
other volatiles
but paradoxically earlier probes of
comets have only highlighted the absence
of expected ices comet surfaces are
remarkably dry and only one comet Tempel
1 revealed even a trace of frozen water
just a light frost that by all
appearances drifted to the surface from
the coma
that's the unsolved mystery of comets
that 67p is no exception
water in the coma but a surface that has
burned black as coal and looked very
much like a rocky asteroid in the
standard interpretation water must be
there but hidden from view as a comet
approaches the Sun we see vaporous Jets
emerging delivering dust and gases from
the nucleus to the coma
such observations have fostered the
scientific conviction that warming by
the Sun causes subsurface ices to
evaporate this creates pockets of
pressurized gas as the pressure builds
the gases break through a surface layer
of dust to form distinctive Jets often
spanning thousands of kilometres the
Jets then become the confirmation of the
theory that subsurface ices are
responsible even if we can't see these
ices directly
but there is another view in an electric
interpretation a common may or may not
contain subsurface ice but its activity
has little to do with solar warming
rather this activity occurs as the body
traverses regions of different charged
in the plasma domain of the Sun a vast
and rarefied atmosphere of the Sun
through which all of the planets move
this sea of charged particles includes
an electric field stretching from the
surface of the Sun to the Heliospheric
boundary the limit of the sun's
influence though exceedingly weak at any
particular place it can hold immense
charge across the volume of the
heliosphere as a comet moves millions of
kilometres through this electric field
the electrical stress is developing on
the surface of the nucleus triggered
dust raising events first a coma then
the distinctive cometary tail as the
activity grows it progressively erodes
the surface much like industrial
electrical machining processes the
close-up images of 67p provide a direct
opportunity to compare the predictions
of the electric comet to the standard
model of the dirty snowball we can trace
the Jets to their sources observations
are already underway and no exposed ice
patches are reported most telling is the
stark terrain that has apparently been
eaten away to create massive cliffs the
active excavation of the surface gives
us a direct view of what was once the
interior of the nucleus
neither the walls of these towering
cliffs nor the deep floors below exhibit
the ice that the standard model requires
but the problem grows the more active
the comet becomes if subsurface pockets
of evaporating ices are the source of
Jets pushing through the surface dust
then as this activity increases it would
be certain to expose these ices below
anything accelerated to 1/3 of walking
speed will escape the nucleus altogether
so far at least none of the erosional
activity not even the concentrated jet
activity has given investigators a first
hint of buried ice
is it possible therefore that the
nucleus of Comet 67p really could be the
rock that it appears to be what might a
dry rock tell us about the nature of
comets and their obscure origins and is
it possible that this very comet could
hold a secret for us about the birth of
such bodies in a recent and violent
phase of planetary history
you
