[Music]
[Music]
good morning ladies and gentlemen I'd
like to thank firstly the Thunderbolts
project and the organizers for inviting
me again to address you this year and
I'd also like to correct a little thing
that I've just said he called me dr.
Carruthers well actually I'm not doctor
and so I'm just leave Crothers okay
today I'm going to speak to you about
logo which you know is the laser
interferometer gravitational observatory
in its claims for black holes and
gravitational waves I'd like to read to
you from the LIGO team's discovery
declaration it was a discovery paper
this is their declaration the basic
features of gw1 5:09 one for point being
produced by the coalescence of two black
holes that is the orbital in spiral and
merger and subsequent final black hole
ring down over over nought point two
seconds the signal increases in
frequency and amplitude in about eight
cycles from 35 to 150 Hertz where the
amplitude reaches a maximum the most
plausible explanation for this evolution
is the inspire of two orbiting masses M
1 and M 2 due to gravitational wave
emission Abbott at all in this paper in
Physical Review Letters now the two
things to note here the two masses
that's the first thing and the
gravitational wave emission these are
things to dispute here's a table from
there paper like as black hole binary
black holes it's a binary system you see
the two black holes that they say that
they first started with was one of 36
solar masses and the other with 29 solar
masses and after they allegedly combined
to form one black hole of a different
type they were three solemn as short as
three solar masses were radiated away as
gravitational wave energy allegedly
I'd like to review some things that I've
done in the past regarding
incompatibility of universes I've put a
list here on the left hand side of what
constitutes fundamentally a blackhole
universe and on the right hand side what
constitutes a BIGBANG universe now
recall that black holes are part of a
Big Bang universe allegedly all of this
gravitational waves etc it's not just
black holes it's inside some Big Bang
universe there are let's have a look at
the left side but now I'll begin with
the right side in fact a Big Bang
universe now there are three types of
Big Bang universe and they are
categorized by their K curvature and so
we see that the Big Bang universe has a
K curvature but no black hole universe
has a K curvature and yet they are
supposed to be in the same universe now
the three Big Bang universes depend on
as I said K and if K is equal to 1 it's
a finite it's as positive curvature and
it has a finite spacial size but a black
hole universe is spatially infinite one
can only wonder how you can fit an
infinite black hole universe inside
especially finite Big Bang universe
similarly the other two universes of
beep bang are K minus 1 in case not they
are spatially infinite well the black
hole universe is infinite but it doesn't
have a K curvature the other other thing
about a big bang universe all of the
three is that they are legend 13.8
billion years old but all black hole
universes are eternal they don't have
any beginning or end in time so how you
can you put a black hole universe inside
a Big Bang universe when they don't even
have the right age or Big Bang universes
are literally expanding but no black
hole universe is expanding at all black
hole universes are allegedly
asymptotically flat now this means that
as you get further away from the from
the black hole
thus the so-called curvature of space
times gets less and less and it's
asymptotic so as you continue to go
without any bound infinitely it becomes
flatter and flatter but
none of the BIGBANG universes are
asymptotically anything and they'd be
the black hole universe contains only
one mess that is the black hole itself
we call that the LIGO team claimed that
they have two black holes coalescing to
form one black hole you meeting
gravitational waves within a BIGBANG
universe and the Big Bang universe
allegedly contains many masses so you
see that they are fundamentally
incompatible mathematically physically
whatever they describe the boy
they are logically incompatible yet the
LIGO team claims to have found two of
them not just once but three times now
so that's what a total of six black
holes in a BIGBANG universe of which
they don't really specify but as we see
they are logically inconsistent so
certainly they didn't find any black
holes in a BIGBANG University meeting
gravitational waves I'd like to go
further over some properties of the big
bling universe the finite mass is
concentrated at its singularity and this
singularity has zero volume and infinite
density the is also has an event horizon
the black hole has an event horizon will
you pass the event horizon there's a
point of no return and it goes into the
singularity but there are forces in
gravity there are forces in general
relativity but gravity is not one of
them and the reason is that in
Einstein's theory gravity is space-time
curvature it's not a force now the
infinite space-time curvature at this
infinite space-time curvature at the
singularity let's think about that a
finite mass is located in zero volume
has infinite density and has infinite
gravity do you think any such thing
exists well I certainly bullet I
certainly know that no such thing exists
as I've said also they have an inner
they have an escape speed the event
horizon is the speed at the event
horizon they have an escape speed that's
the speed of light question is what is
the speed of light at the event horizon
well I'll cover that in another slide
we'll see that this argument was also
logically inconsistent the
asymptotically flat infinite space-time
not expanding universe eternal and a
single mass as I've already said so we
see that these are the alleged physical
properties of a black hole universe here
we have a diagrammatic representation of
a black hole I had to draw it in white
otherwise you wouldn't see it because
it's on a black background and so I've
put a blue arrow there
that's dark matter and it's an event
horizon the singularity is the right at
the center at the at the edge at the end
of that little red radio line and we see
that they have a sparse tool radius they
call it our sub black of light now the
speed of light in vacuum is something
like 300 million meters per second
excuse me and this is an eternal
infinite asymptotically flat space-time
now here are now my diagram a
diagrammatic form of multiple black
holes again they're all in white never
various sizes because they come in sizes
but sizes is not a type of the hole
they're just different sizes human
beings of different sizes but they're
still all human beings there are four
different types of black holes alleged
now we look at this little diagram we
see that there's eternal infinite
gravity at each one of them right at
their singularities and they're all
supposed to be inside a 13.8 billion
year old Big Bang universe that's not
asymptotically anything consider any one
of those black holes in that diagram
they all have the same characteristics
of a singularity where we have zero
volume infinite density and infinite
gravity and they're also supposed to be
asymptotically flat spaced times now
every one of those black holes
encounters what outside of it another
black hole which has infinite gravity
but let's see from the space-time
curvature that's a long way from being
asymptotically flat
so you see you can't have even on the
idea of a black hole if we take that at
face value you can't have multiple black
holes bivariate by the very definition
of the black holes here is a technical
issue regarding mathematical forms it's
a called the principle of superposition
now general activity is a nonlinear
theory and that means that the principle
of superposition does not hold so if you
have say X as a black hole universe and
Y is a big bang universe then X plus y
is not a solution it's not a universe in
this theory
neither is X plus y or X plus X y plus y
etcetera any combinations thereof
because that's just superposing and that
violates the mathematical form of the
theory nonetheless what does Abbott and
the LIGO team tell us here's what is in
their discovery paper
it matches the wave form predicted by
general relativity for the in spiral and
murder of a pair of black holes in the
ring down of the resulting single black
hole so how did they get these black
holes in the BIGBANG universe they
superposed everything's just superposed
but you can't superpose because you need
to have a set of Einstein's field
equations to describe any configuration
that you want and then solve them for
that configuration
you can't just superpose things upon the
other because of this non-linearity so I
want to now remind you about escape
speed in Newton's theory the escape
speed is given by this formula V escape
is the square root of 2 GM over R where
R was the radius of the object a
spherical object M as its mass G is the
universal constant for gravitation now
escape speed is a two-body relation if I
take a ball and I throw it into the year
that left the earth but it didn't escape
because I didn't throw it fast enough
and if you throw or fire something fast
enough it will continue to go up and not
come back the minimum speed that you
have to leave the earth with is called
the escape speed and it's a two-body
relation because if you have one body in
the universe
there's nothing to escape from anything
so it's a two-body relation despite the
fact that there is only one mass that's
present in the actual expression for the
escape speed but to get that expression
you need to invoke Newton's theory of
gravity where there are two masses which
you see there is given by F is equal to
GM large M small M over R squared so
it's fundamentally a two-body relation
where as a black hole is a one body
universe so how can a black hole have an
escape speed when it's in the universe
on its own keynote so let's go a little
further with the escape speed issue this
comes from the dictionary of geophysics
astrophysics and astronomy they're all
experts so they tell us in general
relativity for spherical black holes
sparge to black holes that's what they
asked very gone exactly the same
expression our BH holds for the surface
of a black hole that's the expression I
just gave you from Newton let's quickly
go back to him
there's Newton's expression that's a two
body relation and they say it's the same
expression the surface of a black hole
that RB H is an old surface consisting
of those photon trajectories in our rays
which just do not escape to infinity
this surface is also called the black
hole horizon the required radius B H
follows from setting V escape equal to C
C is what the speed of light some 300
million meters per second there's the
equation that they use for the black
hole radius to GM over C squared well
that's just the rearrangement of
Newton's formula Newton's expression
which is a two-body relation let's have
a look at now how they confound two
different escape speeds at the same
place at the same time in the one
equation this top expression is called a
metric and it's actually a solution
that's for a so called spot chilled
black hole and light travels along a
null line so that means that D s squared
on the left hand side this acquire
light will be zero so we put zero in
there on the left-hand side in the
second line and then we can look at it
without any loss of generality by
considering an equatorial plane that
means theatre can be 90 degrees inside
theatre is zero so the sine theta term
drops out and D theta which is just the
differential element of a constant is
also zero so that right hand side drops
out completely and we're left with this
middle expression now if we rearrange
this middle expression we get dr over dt
well that's just distance over time
distance divided by the time taken is a
speed so we get speed and this
expression here is the dr/dt then they
say at the event horizon well at the
event horizon what's the value of R well
we just saw that it's two GM over C
squared so if we put two GM over C
squared in the value of R we get 1 minus
1 that's 0 and they tell us here we find
that the velocity of light at the event
horizon is zero so the escape speed is
the speed of light to get C in the first
place they use Newton's formula and it's
300 million meters per second in this
very equation now they use the same
Skype speed then they tell us that the
escape speed is zero so in the one
equation we have two different escape
speeds for at the same place which is
quite impossible you can only really you
can only really shake your head in
amazement at how cosmologists do things
here's the spot your radius of a black
hole 2 GM over C squared where C is
allegedly the escape speed of 300
million meters per second but we just
saw that they told us at zero the other
thing of course is that in this geometry
it's not Euclidean Einstein's fancy
non-euclidean four dimensional geometry
it's Romanian or pseudo Romanian and so
this expression or this quantity R that
appears in
equations it's not a radius and it's not
even a distance and yet they adorn it
with the properties of a radius when
strictly speaking it's not a distance at
all in this expression here we go again
with the swatch two radii it's not a
radius remember but they tell us here
this is from Wally's book on general
relativity it's quite a well-known book
it's another fairy story from A to Z as
fast your black hole of mass equal to
that of the earth it has a spatial
radius of one centimeter he says it's a
radius no it isn't a black hole of one
solar mass has as fast your radius of
only three kilometers well no it's not a
radius and that's where the escape speed
is which I just spoke of having that
schizophrenic property here we come
again to the idea of forces
gravitational forces in generality
videos I said gravity is not a force
because the space-time curvature now
let's consider a spring who's a pretty
unsophisticated looking Springs because
I drew them myself and I didn't have
much software to do it with anyway
we take a spring horizontal and let's
assume that the left-hand side of this
spring is fixed through a wall or
something so I can't move and you want
to stretch this spring or compress it
what do you do you apply a force to it
or you could pull it with your hand
or you could push it and that's a force
Springs respond to forces now let's turn
the spring vertical so now it's stuck to
the ceiling say and we put a weight on
it what pulls the spring down it's
weight
what is weight weight is a force the
spring responds due to a force pulling
the spring but there are no forces of
gravity in general relativity so this
spring would have to be stretched or
compressed by curved space-time it
doesn't make any sense at all you can
consider for instance if your result as
me or older you'll know that when you go
to the grocery shop in those days you
used to have a spring balance and he put
a bag of spuds on there you say well you
owe me 10 bucks because of weighs this
much that's a weight
did space-time curvature or a force
stretch his spring cosmologists don't
know the difference between forces and
geometry space-time curvature what they
can do here's another one that I like
they tell us that they're from this
equation for a black hole that there's
an event horizon at R equals to GM over
C squared when you put that in you get
the R squared over zero
that's a division by zero they tell us
that's infinity that's infinity well we
all learnt in lower a lower high school
that you cannot divide by zero because
it's undefined then they go through this
singularity down to another one where R
is actually zero again they get a
division by zero and they tell us that
this is the real singularity the other
one is a fake one because they can
remove it with their imaginations here's
what they tell us about this singularity
this is from Dodson and Poston tensor
geometry once a body of of meta of any
mass M lies inside its parts your radius
2m it undergoes gravitational collapse
gravitational collapse we'll put a tag
on that we come back to it and the
singularity becomes physical not a
limiting friction so the divide by zero
it's not a limiting friction so we're
not talking about limits in calculus
we're talking about division Z by zero
and I say it's a real thing it's
physical of course what is the physical
thing zero volume infinite density
infinite gravity
here's Carol honestly this is a large
book on modern astrophysics our non
rotating black hole has a particularly
simple structure at the center is the
singularity a point of zero volume and
infinite density density where all of
the black holes mass is located
space-time is infinitely curved at the
singularity the black hole singularity
is a real physical entity it is not a
mathematical artifact so they're telling
you yes you can have zero volume for
nightmares infinite density infinite
gravity and you can divide boy Lloyd
twice
maizena thorn and wheeler have written a
book it's as big as well it used to be
as big as its Sydney telephone book it's
half the size of a Sydney telephone book
now
Sydney's ground not because it's a
bookcase one says that our equals zero
is a physical singularity of space-time
so there can be no ambiguity as to what
these experts assert it goes on with
Hawking these are the singularities
again there must be a singularity of
infinite density and space-time
curvature within the black hole now we
come to Roger Penrose
a friend of Hawking as our decreases the
space-time curvature mounts in
proportion to our the -3 becoming
theoretically infinite at R equals
naught but as I said no finite masses 0
volume infinite density and infinite
gravity anywhere this is a fairy story
here's another paradox this one has a
little bit of mathematics in it but the
top here is Einstein's field equations
the two terms on the left-hand side
constitute his tensor for space-time
curvature lamb there is the cosmological
constant that they implement and the
right-hand side is his energy momentum
tensor to describe the material sources
of his gravitational field and they say
well when R sub u V equals zero we get a
sponsored universe now note that to get
R sub u V equals zero you set t sub u V
equal to zero the other parts disappear
because of a mathematical relation which
I won't go into so it doesn't look like
it but it does because of a tensor or
tensorial relation so you get R u v
equals naught this is the so-called
special universe from which they
generate a black hole now the next one
are you simply your sub u v equals
lambda G little G use sub u v now notice
here that this is leads to the sitter's
empty universe now why is it empty well
precisely because T sub u V equals zero
so that means there's no material
sources in this universe by this
mathematical constraint go back to the
previous
the same constraint is there t sub u v
equals zero and yet they tell us that
there is a mass in that universe so now
we have by the very same mathematical
minute straight matter is both present
and absent in a universe well that's a
logical contradiction you cannot have
matter present by or aimed absent by the
very same mathematical constraint as I
said this is all inside some Big Bang
universe well quite Hawking again this
is from his book a brief history of time
I saw William Shatner and Teller owner
on a video recently he says I tried to
read that book he said I couldn't go
past a few pages or some words that
effect and then he said I can't it's
just to me science and science fiction
after reading trying to read this stuff
science and science fiction are one and
the same
he's right in current terms okay so at
the Big Bang itself the universe is
thought to have had sorry to have had
zero size and to be infinitely hot let's
think about that zero size and
infinitely hot first what is temperature
well according to chemists such as Linus
Pauling who wasn't bad at chemistry and
lots of other physicists and such the
temperature of some substances what how
it's a measure of the kinetic energy of
the particles now these particles are
moving around in space they also occupy
space because they have masses and the
more energy they have the faster they
move the temperature goes up so how fast
must particles be moving to have an
infinite temperature second if you've
got zero volume where are the particles
where they going to live you have no
volume so they can't be there and
they've got no place to run around in
this is one of my favorites I've quoted
a number of times but it's so wonderful
that I have to do it again this is from
Martha Thorne on wheels
Lula's telephone book one crucial
assumption underlies the standard hot
Big Bang model that the universe
in a state of rapid expansion from a
very nearly homogeneous isotropic
condition of infinite than in brackets
here or near infinite density and
pressure so now they're getting pressure
as well as temperature and density of
being infinite now I ask you something
how close did maizena Thorne and will
they get to infinite to know when though
in Europe this is a nonsensical
statement people read this thing and
they think we'll these guys are geniuses
how did they do it so I've just little
note here infinite hotness infinitely
hot nothingness that makes sense
infinitely your infinite density and
pressure yeah
where was the pressured surface you know
if you've got pressure what's the
definition of pressure force over area
well we got zero volume where's the
surface but now these geniuses tell us
that they have infinite or near infinite
pressure in zero volume and of course
this is a lead up to well awesome to
have some words to say on shortly
there was no condensed matter so that so
what emitted the blackbody spectrum this
is their Cosmic Microwave Background
that was a generated by their Big Bang
universe within 400 years before was
that the tender age of 400 thousand
years it's got this radiation where did
it come from so that's a lead up to what
I'm going to say enough shortly after I
discussed he kick off a little thermal
emission now this is a very important
issue its central to physics and
astronomy and it's actually false but
they believe it to be true if you take a
box and doesn't matter what you make of
as long as it's opaque right
according to kick-off who was a german
scientist in the mid 19th century
he said if you take a box you heat it up
and you keep the temperature stable
there's a radiation field inside well we
know that things radiate you get an
infrared camera and you look at things
and they're radiating so this box
radiates and inside
because it's hollow there'll be a
radiation field he was of the view that
if you take any arbitrary opaque
material and make a box of it it doesn't
matter what shape was size it is or what
it's material is as long as it's large
and I've said that the fraction is
unimportant
well diffraction is on a small scale
anyhow he says here arbitrary opaque
cavities at thermal equilibrium and I
put magically because it's magically
magically contained the very same
radiation field as one made of carbon at
the same temperature so miraculously if
you make one out of granite or if you
made one out of highly polished silver
or any other opaque material you doesn't
matter yeah it's just as though they
were all more made of carbon do you
think that that makes sense how does of
all of these materials become the same
as carbon well they don't
and he says that the nature and form of
the walls are irrelevant ok so that
means it doesn't matter its size or
shape but the truth is the materials
always influence the emission field here
is an example of a blackbody spectrum
now I should say that these boxes that
Kia cough was talking about he called it
blackbody radiation because he used the
lying boxes when he did some experiments
with soot or lamp black and that's black
so this is carbon in carbon has this
property so it's called blackbody or
normal radiation and when you look at
the spectrum from such a material it has
this kind of profile it goes up in a
hump and it comes down and I've given a
few here and you see that with the
increasing temperature the peak of the
temperature or the peak occurs at a
smaller and smaller wavelengths so you
heat it up the wavelength will shift in
this graph towards the left and for the
peak temperature and you see that if you
have a graph like this from a spectrum
of some material you'll say well I can
look at this spectrum and I can find its
peak and then I can tell you what the
temperature is of the emitter well
that's okay provided it's a carbon box
but what if it's not a carbon box always
a carbon material you might you might
get a profile that has this kind of
distribution but does it tell you the
temperature of the emitter and the
answer is no not unless it is a
blackbody such as carbon
well most materials are not now what is
a blackbody I should tell you that
theoretically it's ideal it means that
all the radiation that falls on it is
absorbed immediately and all the
radiation then is converted and
re-emitted so that it at thermal
equilibrium there is no change of
temperature because the radiation that
comes in gets absorbed and it gets gets
reradiating so there's no change of
temperature but there's an absorption
and emission from the surface of the
material that is a blackbody now it's
ideal but it's very closely approximated
by soot now there's a thing in in in the
theory the other boundary is an ideal
reflector an idea reflector is one that
absorbs nothing everything that goes
falls onto the reflector is reflected so
it absorbs nothing so it cannot increase
its temperature by radiation because it
can't absorb any radiation to increase
its temperature it reflects at all so if
you have now a high an ideal reflector
and you have a radiation coming off it
it's reflected radiation you look at it
you get a Planckian spectrum and you say
well I can get a temperature and you
take the temperature is that the
temperature of the reflector well the
answer is no because this radiation
didn't come from the reflector he came
from the surroundings was reflected off
the reflector and does not report the
temperature of the reflector the effect
that cannot emit because by definition
it has no emission capability has
absorption of zero because it's a
perfect reflector what's a perfect
reflector well do they exist no but they
are closely approximated by things like
highly polished silver it has a
reflectivities of not 0.999 one or
something like that
so it reflects pretty well everything
that falls on it this has implications
for spectra of all types cosmologists do
away with the enclosure they do away
with thermal equilibrium and they assume
the kick-off law is still true
and that they can universally apply
Planck's equation now Planck developed
an equation to describe these curves and
so they apply Planck's equation to a
nice picture that they get and I think
they can get temperatures so we have now
some spectra from some stars because
speaker the Sun and in Tyrus and you see
here that the temperature is reported by
the spectral 23,000 Kelvin for speaker
the Sun is the photosphere of the Sun is
at 5800 Kelvin and in towers is at 3400
Kelvin but all these stars black bodies
well they're not they're not carbon and
they don't satisfy the conditions that
strictly require the application of Q
cops law or in hence Planck's equation
so the temperatures that are received
from these are what too low the reason
why they're too low is because a black
body emits the thoth the maximum amount
of energy these are not black bodies so
they will emit in a profile they will
emit energy levels that are lower than
what a black body would have done so
this temperature that you are signed to
it is actually lower than the
temperature that it should be so these
are apparent temperatures this is
important as well for the CMB because
it's allegedly a blackbody spectrum at
approximately 2.7 to 5 Kelvin here's
Planck's equation for its spectral
density mu r nu sorry is the frequency
and C is the speed of light 300,000 300
million meters per second not the 0 and
K is Boltzmann constant H is Planck's
constant this is important because
Planck introduced the corner of action
in this expression and that spawned
quantum mechanics so if Planck's
equation is not universal in quantum
mechanics and astronomy as such assume
it is which it isn't then they've got a
lot of problems so strictly speaking
this applies through a blackbody and
opaque solid at thermal equilibrium
within an enclosure so if we get rid of
the enclosure and such we can
approximate some materials such as
plates and certain things by this
equation but it's not universe
so contrary to what physics and
astronomy believes so we need to know
how does the thermal spectrum produce
well the very detail with the fine
details of it are not known but what we
know is that it's opaque solids produce
or opaque solids produces also liquids
can produce a thermal spectrum and this
is due to their lattice structure so
there's a vibration of the atoms or
molecules in the lattice structure that
produces this so professor Pierre Marie
robotoid published in 2003 in the
transactions of plasma science in the I
Triple E an article about this and
here's a quote from it interesting when
Planck never sought to bring full
physical meaning to his own law by
linking it to a specific physical
process undertaken by a specific
physical species in a specific physical
setting in this sense planking and
thermal emission remains a unique in
finish to this day so I have yet to link
the production of a thermal photon in
blackbody radiation to a direct physical
cause the situation can be corrected if
true blackbody emission has views this
consequence of the vibration of atomic
nuclei within the confines of a lattice
structure well here is a profile of the
bomber series of the hydrogen atom and
you see that it's in line emission just
lines it's not this Planckian
distribution this is typical of gases so
a thermal special requires a lattice and
only condensed matter has a lattice
liquids and solids are condensed matter
but gases are not condensed matter but
the hypothetical Big Bang primordial
gaseous exotica well how can they emit a
thermal suppression this is their cosmic
microwave background made up of
electrons protons neutrons quark gluon
plasmas whatever that is here's an
interesting thing about black holes and
thermal emission now these Hawking
radiation it's supposed to be a
blackbody radiation from black holes one
way or another and
but black holes and lot condensed matter
they're not solids and liquids they just
have got no volume does oh I mean the
singularity has no volume and they have
no lattice structure since the
singularity has no volume so they don't
have any material structure at all and
yet this phantasmagorical black hole it
has no means to produce a blackbody
spectrum but according to Hawking it
does so they violate black holes violate
the physics of thermal emission well you
need something to emit you can't have a
mass that doesn't have a volume it
doesn't even have a surface and yet it
emits wonderful gravitational collapse
this is very interesting recently
professor Roberto again has addressed it
from the point of view of thermodynamics
and the truth of matter is we can
analyze black holes now without any
equations we just go through some laws
of thermodynamics because they violate
the zeroth first and second laws of
thermodynamics by this process of
gravitational collapse
in so doing they they produce perpetual
motion machines of the first and second
kind well thermodynamics forbids
perpetual motion machines and a free gas
can't do work on itself and make itself
collapse because if you take a gas and
you put it in a container it spreads out
and fills a container and if you want to
compress it you have to apply force just
like you do with a bicycle pump you have
to apply a force and the temperature
goes up you can feel that when you use
the bicycle pump right but you've got to
now you take this container of gas and
you put it inside another container and
open it up the gas squirts out fills the
container and then now if we do away
with the walls completely what happens
to the gas will it apps on itself
well it'll continue to spread out that's
what gases do so they can't collapse on
themselves that would be doing work on
yourself and that's forbidden by the
laws of thermodynamics but black holes
are formed by gravitational collapse of
free gases
so this is a very important point in
thermodynamics there are two basic
quantities there's an intensive property
and an extensive property and
temperature is an intensive property not
an extensive property here is a way to
see the difference take a brick and we
heat the brick up and we get it to a
certain temperature we keep it there
right now I cut the brick in half the
two pieces now have different masses but
the temperature hasn't changed has it
the temperature stays the same if I cut
them again but the masses reduce the
temperature stays the same this is the
temperature is called an intensive
property right the mass is an extensive
property because it changes with this
process right so you cannot define an
intensive property in terms of an
extensive property but that's what
cosmologists do with a black hole
thermodynamics they redefine temperature
unwittingly using an extensive property
mass to define an intensive property
temperature in direct violation of the
laws of thermodynamics so the Hawking
bekenstein thermodynamics of black holes
is nonsense because thermodynamics
forbids it
now big bang creationism it's
creationism I think it's the best of all
because the Creator created itself but
our coach come back to say a few more
things about that but Big Bang creation
requires validity of kirchoff's law of
thermal emission and universality of
Planck's equation now what do we mean by
university of Planck's equation because
because kick off made all the boxes
black ones Planck's equation applies the
wall boxes so it doesn't matter what the
box is made of they think the equation
can reply but it doesn't so Keir god's
law is a force and Planck's equation is
not universal now I've given here an
example of a thing that produces or
proves that kickoffs law is forcing
that's MRI the clinical existence of MRI
which is magnetic resonance imaging
proves that Q cos Loras is false because
if Q Gauss law is true then all the
radiation in the walls of a cavity can
go into the radiation
field but if that is true then MRI
couldn't exist because MRIs is
facilitated being the same process if it
is a NMR and that means that this spin
lattice relaxation lattice is what the
structure of the material the spin
relates to the protons in the atoms and
the of the structure of the material if
all the radiation in the wors was
permitted to be going to the radiation
field you would have no way of having
spin relaxation and there produce MRI
images you wouldn't have a resonant
device because you could not build up a
standing wave inside a resonant cavity
because all the radiation would be
absorbed and then remit it but we have
resonant devices everywhere in microwave
technologies so all cavities are not
like so the clinical existence of MRI is
always proven that it's not but the
simplest one is not MRI the simplest one
is an experiment done done recently by
Professor Roberto and it's been online
for three days only now I couldn't put
it in my slides because I had to prepare
beforehand but a simple experiment that
you can do in your kitchen with about
$1,000 worth of equipment at most not a
billion-dollar satellite right well
proof that proves to you that cacao is
false so if you go to Professor robotize
website on YouTube you just look still
search on sky scholar two words sky
scholar and look for his lecture on his
experiment it's called is ku is kickoffs
lor true the experiment now since Q
kossler is is false the Hall of
cosmology is dead why because without it
I had no Cosmic Microwave Background and
no Big Bang so now it's proven false by
a very simple experiment we don't have
to use a single tensor equation and get
confused about it so that would be
something that I recommend to you all to
go and have a look at because it affects
not just astronomy but a lot of physics
condensed matter physics quantum
mechanics everything is affected by this
because Planck's equation is not
universal
now I want to look at some conservation
laws regarding general relativity now
general relativity cannot localize its
gravitational energy that means you
cannot have gravitational waves with
this theory here is how Einstein tries
to get conservation of energy and
momentum if you take a closed system we
know from many many experiments that the
total energy momentum of the closed
system is conserved this is fundamental
in physics now iced I knew that so he
had to find a way to make his theory
comply with this experimental finding
and so what is energy that what is what
is the energy of momentum to Einstein
it's everything except these
gravitational fields that means
electromagnetic radiation mass etc all
of this is matter and it contributes
through the curvature of a spacetime
right so he needs now some way and means
of accounting for the energy of his
gravitational field because in a closed
system you'll have the material sources
and you'll have the gravitational field
we want to take the total energy and
momentum of that closed system and then
conserve it so he invents a thing well
he's got his big T I've put them down
the bottom there the total energy in
momentum is equal to little T with a
superscript and subscript and the big T
the big T is his energy momentum tensor
for the matter what's the matter
everything except his gravitational
field so he invents a thing called he's
zero tensor the little T to represent
the energy momentum of his gravitational
field and he adds them together to get
the total energy but this is not a
tensor equation so we can't deal with it
as a tensor so what does he do formally
in mathematics if you take a divergence
of this expression and get zero you have
a conservation law so he can't take a
tensor divergence so he takes an
ordinary divergence and then he
pronounces this thus it results from our
field equations of gravitation that the
laws of conservation of momentum and
energy are satisfied here instead of the
energy components of T it's a little
displace but Sigma sub Sigma mu the
gravitational field we have to introduce
the totality of the energy components of
matter and gravitational field okay so
now he says here we got a divergence of
zero first it's not tensorial so that
violates these fundamental premise that
they must all be tensorial
the second thing is this
this is complicated expressions but that
doesn't you don't need to know it the
yeah that's the outcome when we look at
the definition of Einstein pseudotensor
that's their complicated expression at
the top because it's like a tensor he
says these quantities to alpha Sigma we
call the energy come in components of
the gravitational field well what since
it's like a tensor it's a certain so we
can treat it like a tensor and so we do
this thing called contraction in the
second line and it produces an invariant
now the invariant has the property of
being a first thought of intrinsic
differential invariant this is what
which means that it's made up of the
components of the metric tension their
first derivatives and none all and
nothing else which is the last
expression the G's are this metric
tensor but in 1900 the pure
mathematicians who invented this
mathematical apparatus prove that you
cannot construct the first order
intrinsic differential invariant they
don't exist and yet Einstein and his
followers managed to calculate the
energy of a gravitational wave to model
their alleged physical phenomena with a
with an entity a mathematical concoction
of symbols right that doesn't even have
validity in mathematics this is really
miraculous so there's only one way to
really write Weinstein's fuel equations
you know so they can be tensorial and
satisfy a conservation law as a formal
mathematical expression and you see the
total energy and top is that it's the
top equation this is how you write them
and then the second equation is a tensor
divergence and it's zero so we say wait
we've got a we've got now a formal
conservation law but notice something
the top equation is the total energy
momentum of a closed system it's always
zero there's no other way you can write
Einstein's equations to satisfy this but
we're in experiments do we find that the
energy of momentum of a closed system is
always annoyed this is nonsense but this
is the only way you can do it so the
theory is fundamentally logically
inconsistent and mathematically true now
I come to the whole object of the thing
what like I did we see that you cannot
have black holes in Big Bang universes
the whole thing is inconsistent so so
where do their gravitational waves from
they get it from a wave
question but the wave equation does not
come from black hole equations they
talking about black holes generating
their waves it doesn't come from Big
Bang equations they black holes are
inside a big banging universe it doesn't
come from Einstein's nonlinear field
equations it comes from a linearized
form of Einstein's field equations
because you can't solve the nonlinear
ones so they linearized them by going to
indeed and get a wave equation and then
they say this wave equation tells us
that the waves travel at the speed of
light no they don't
here's logo's gravitational waves at the
speed of light bearing in mind of course
that they have two different speeds of
light for their black hole escape zero
and 300 million meters per second in
1916 this is in the LIGO discovery paper
in 1916 the year after the final
formulation of the field equations of
general relativity Albert Einstein
predicted the existence of gravitational
waves he found that the linearized weak
field equations had wave solutions
transverse waves a spatial strain that
travel at the speed of light generated
by time variations of the mass
quadrupole moment of the source it's a
lot of jargon there but it just tells
you that they're supposed to be
traveling at the speed of light let's
look at these linear equations there
they are all right the little the new
they just they just take the values one
minus one minus one sitter and the other
ones a little tiny changes in the flight
space we don't have to worry too much
about it here's the derivation they
truncate what's called the Ricci tensor
to be able to do the mathematical
mumbo-jumbo then if they set the second
part to nought and then you end up with
a wave equation and it says well this
one travels at the speed of light you
know what this whole thing is coordinate
dependent you can change the coordinates
and you can have any speed you like so
their claim that they travel at the
speed of light
Einstein's included is out of nonsense
it's a coordinate dependent speed so
they don't have such a speed now I come
to logos devious methods let's assume
multiple black holes inside a Big Bang
universe like they do let's assume
gravitational waves propagating at the
speed of light
like they do now we take me
equations to manufacture trajectories of
multiple black hauling directions and we
generate from those equations using our
computers 250,000 templates template is
there fancy name for a line of best fit
right 250,000 and in the sociality
gravitational waves of course this is
the multiple black holes inside a Big
Bang universe that they have no real
equations for anyway they just made it
up
then they generate these 250,000 and put
them in a database then why go says I've
got a generic noise fellas so the
scientists are like I say that's
wonderful what we'll do is we'll put any
new our computer and we'll try to find
from our own equations that we made up a
line of best fit to the noise that we
just got then they find one it's a line
of best fit that doesn't have to be
exact you know it could be right off it
doesn't matter as long as it's close
it's the closest of you 250,000 then
they say well that model is for two
black holes circling another thing at
this speed and that in produces this so
that's the physical cause of the wave of
the noisy nauman device from an equation
that we made up from our own nonsensical
equations so we look at the database
here it is I couldn't do 250,000 of them
so I I don't know how many of there you
someone might like to count them anyhow
LIGO says that they steal these little
one at the bottom that's the line of
best fit from the 250,000 database from
their own manufacturing lines of best
fit here's their devious graphics notice
at the top they've got two black holes
it's a binary system they're rotating
around each other then they coalesce
they call it a chirp it makes the noise
you know like a like a bird yeah I'll
tell you about David right see because I
saw him in Queensland he was talking
about chirps anyhow you this thing
here's a chirp this waveform it makes a
noise they generate the noise maybe they
got a contract with Marshall for this
speaker so I don't know anyhow you again
that's that little tiny dot there that
noise that they got there they say well
you know that matches their line of best
fit from out of 250,000 balla base is
one so that's the one we'll pick and
then they told the world we discovered
them well with that kind of computing
power and that kind of so many degrees
of freedom and the ability to generate
whatever you like as a database you can
find a line of best fit in like a four
whistlers mother
there she is and it's a different one
you see the eye goes at the bottom
whistlers mother's up the top so I want
to tell you a little story before I come
to my final slide in December last year
David writes he went to the University
of Queensland at a teacher's conference
high school teachers conference and I
went up there cuz I'm in Tasmania right
don't mention Tasmania I was pleased to
hear that anyhow so I go up to see his
lecture but before his lecture I went to
some of the teachers workshops I just
want to see what's going on here and in
the state of Queensland
it is now mandatory directed by the
Department of Education that children as
young as twelve must be taught BIGBANG
creationism black halls in the hall
paraphernalia can you believe it
Stephen Hawking might be very happy
about that because he's written a series
of books for 12 year olds mr. George
goes gallivanting with black holes and
big bangs depending we depending on
which book you pick it's written for 12
year olds he's about three of them at
least that I know of but that's what the
state of play is in state of Queensland
I wouldn't be surprised if it's a same
here in the US now anyway but his
lecture I listened to his carry-on and I
set up right up near the front so I
could see the whites of his eyes you
know any of course he doesn't know who I
am I know who he is because I've seen
him on television we've done it he says
like this we've done it we found him
we've discovered gravitational waves
well you know this is how science is
done they're scientists and they I've
got a new method mass media induced
message through
this is how they do science did you see
the guys with the Higgs boson when they
announced that they were jumping up and
down hugging one another on
international television as though they
just scored a winning goal at the World
Cup final this is the new way to do
science well it might be their way but
that's not the real science way anyhow
so I discovered that right so you was
just doing the same thing that other
cosmologists do gallivant around the
world and tell people like Brian Cox
Larry Krauss Richard Dawkins neil
degrasse tyson they travel around the
world that lampooning everybody you know
anybody who disagrees with their
creationism and they tell everybody that
your creationism can't be right because
ours is the one and only and yours is a
false prophet another little story
before I go to the last slide if you've
got time yes a little bit of the
cosmologists are now spending or they
led boy Hawking by the way they're
spending 100 million dollars of Milnes
thoughtless money now min Milner is some
Russian billionaire who likes to throw
money at cosmologists and string
theorists no one who does real science
but these kind of guys and he gives them
three million bucks a piece
you know and if you happen to be Stephen
Hawking and you didn't get one you get a
special dispensation and you get another
three million and to top it all off
how does Milner set up his grants
everybody who wanted this year sits on
the committee to decide who wins it next
year well you know what the outcome will
be weren't you more string theorists and
more cosmologists of course
so in hell they travel around the world
doing these sorts of things now right
seas are doing the same thing he's just
going out there he's the he's the salt
a solo artist for the LTC what's the LTC
that's the liger Tabernacle Choir so he
goes around he sings the praises of logo
and he wants everybody has spent
billions of dollars to build new low
goes for them and Liza's so they're in
space and they can do more gravitational
waves on in black holes of course none
of it exists and during that talk he
made a remark to the all the teachers in
the audience they're listening to him
and he says you know Newton's theory of
gravity appeared in about 1643 and I
looked around the room and it seemed
that I was the only one who had a
problem with that statement the reason
is this Newton is heralded as being the
greatest genius of all right but I doubt
very much that even he could have
written down a theory of gravity when he
was aged one that doesn't deter mr.
right see and the other cosmologists
from making these calculations and with
nonsensical forms etc so that's a
lead-up oh I have another little story
this is really funny there's a there's a
web blog a news blog called the
conversation it's based in Australia and
some Australian scientists put up an
article there about these black hole
gravitational wave starts with like a
you know a son nonsensical I couldn't
resist so I went in there and I put in
some scientific remarks and Bob will
know this because he did it too
he told me about it so I went there and
made some comments as well so he knows
the men I'm talking about well the
leader of this group is Professor
Matthew Bayliss of Swinburne University
of Technology in Australia and he's one
of the guys that are spending one
hundred million dollars of nillas money
I forgot to tell you what they're doing
it for they're trying to contact aliens
I'm serious they tried to contact
islands with this hundred million
dollars and an imbalance according to
the article is the leader of the
Australian contingent and they want to
use radio telescopes all around the
world including the Parkes radio
telescope so he didn't like my response
he didn't like walls either but he
didn't like mine in particular so he
came and made some statement he says I
am confident in the general theory of
relativity because I've found quasars
and observed quasars that's
it well you know what I'm sure that a
fishmonger would have confidence in the
theory of relativity because he found an
absurd fish so I have to say this LIGO
is a fraud it's a scientific fluid it
has absolutely nothing to do with
science it's all to do with who knows
what
money-making mesmerize ation mystery
mysticism but it's not science
and as I said it's science by using mass
media induce mass hysteria
so I'll conclude there you can have the
probably a well-earned break thank you
very much for listening
[Applause]
[Music]
you
