welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info in the previous space news we
discussed astronomers recent admission
that they now need a whole new theory to
explain how planets form today yet
another discovery has shattered
conventional ideas about planet
formation and the so called
early solar system scientists studying
data from NASA's Dawn spacecraft have
learned some astonishing details about
the asteroid Vesta the standard model
states that the asteroid came into
existence at the same time as the solar
system however key predictions of this
model have been falsified by the dawn
data the team was surprised by the
absence of the mineral olivine which
they expected to find in abundance on
the asteroids surface a report on the
website Science Daily reads olivine is a
main component of planetary mantels and
should have been found in large
quantities on the surface of Vesta due
to a double meteorite impact that
according to computer simulations dug
the celestial bodies southern Pole to a
depth of 80 kilometers catapulting large
amounts of material to the surface the
absence of the expected olivine has led
the scientists to conclude that the
asteroids crust must be almost three
times thicker than expected the science
daily report concludes these discoveries
challenge models that describe the
formation of Vesta and consequently the
formation of the solar system including
earth a more complex model of planet
formation therefore has to be considered
however despite these and countless
other recent astonishing discovers
institutional sciences fundamental ideas
about the solar system's origins remain
unshaken in a lost space news we
discussed the fact that researchers have
finally admitted there is no successful
model which can explain the formation of
the solar system and now we have only
about a week later a report which says
asteroid Vesta to reshape theories of
planet formation the article actually
goes to show just how difficult it is
to shake a belief because that's all we
have the story of the formation of the
solar system is merely a once upon a
time story which has become a belief
system the article says with its 500
kilometers diameter the asteroid Vesta
is one of the largest known planet
embryos it came into existence at the
same time as the solar system well here
we have the assumption the solar system
was formed in a single event it also
assumes that the solar system was formed
from a cloud of dust and gas and these
bodies are creted and formed in this
case a molten core the molten iron core
a crust and a mantle all the kinds of
things that you would find on planet
Earth the problem is this body is quite
small and its composition and now the
calculations of how its crust and mantle
should appear don't seem to work they
don't match one of the major points in
the article is that using numerical
simulations and data from the space
mission dawn they have found that there
is a striking absence of a particular
mineral olivine on the asteroid surface
now it was expected that one spectacular
so-called impact crater was excavated to
such a depth that anything beneath the
crust should have been splattered onto
the surface and that particular mineral
olivine is missing the authors conclude
that the asteroids crust is three times
thicker than expected due to the absence
of olivine on the asteroid surface here
we see the data being forced to fit the
discredited planet formation model
instead of the model being forced to fit
the data in fact the data should be
added to the growing list of strikes
against planet formation theory together
with solar system bodies that should
have been shattered by impacts that are
believed to have created craters a good
fraction of the sizes of those bodies
other outstanding examples are the 22
kilometre Martian moon Phobos with a 9
kilometre crater and satins 1060
kilometer moon tethers with a 660
kilometres crater in each instance the
craters are neatly circular with no sign
of splintering or frag
it's as if they were machined into the
surface by a cosmic drill in 2011
scientists were astonished to discover a
second gigantic crater at Vesta South
Pole
which they described as a so-called
impact basin the principal investigator
on NASA's Dawn mission said at the time
there is a global dichotomy on Vesta and
a fundamental difference between the
northern and southern hemispheres the
northern hemisphere is older and heavily
cratered in contrast to the brighter
southern hemisphere where the texture is
more smooth and there are lots of sets
of grooves there is a massive mountain
at the South Pole one of the more
surprising aspects is a set of deep
equatorial troughs this kind of global
dichotomy is also witnessed on the
planet Mars where the northern
hemisphere has been excavated up to six
miles deep as discussed in the
feature-length documentary film the
Lightning scarred planet Mars this
dichotomy falsifies the notion of
billion-year processes defining the
planetary surfaces in the electric
universe theory comets and asteroids are
the products of a relatively recent epic
of planetary instability when electrical
interactions between planets carve two
planetary surfaces it should be pointed
out that the impact crater on this
roughly 500 kilometres wide asteroid is
475 kilometres across
that's an incredible width on such a
small body what's more it has a central
peak which rises 22 kilometres high
which is twice the height of Mount
Everest the asteroid also sports
equatorial troughs that run around the
body none of these things are well
explained by impacts what's more this
huge crater seems to be superimposed on
another one slightly smaller this kind
of scarring is typical of what you see
on planetary surfaces and other moons
where you have impacts so-called
superimpose one upon the other often
with the center of one crater perched on
the rim of another and this is the case
here on Vesta as well this
is symptomatic of electrical arc
machining of a surface and even the
grooves and sometimes raised ridges
which have been seen on other bodies
seem to be characteristic of a body
that's caught up in an interplanetary
electrical discharge it said that the
material that was excavated from the
asteroid Vesta arrives on earth in the
form of a certain kind of meteorite but
what if the meteorites and Vesta were
all formed in the same catastrophic
birth process of this particular body
because in the electric universe
asteroids comets meteors planets and
moons are all born electrically they are
not formed by gravitational accretion
and therefore the internal structure of
this body has nothing to do with the
separation of elements from a primordial
cloud of dust and gas it has instead the
composition of the body from which it
was born and that would have been highly
differentiated to begin with so the
model of the formation of this object is
completely wrong and the data they are
finding from the Dawn spacecraft
supports this this business of the
composition of asteroid Vesta also harks
back to the discovery from the Stardust
mission which found that the minerals
being emitted from a comet also have the
structure of the minerals from a well
differentiated body not from primordial
dust and gas in a related news item the
European Space Agency's probe Rosetta
has acquired new images of what
scientists are calling a contact binary
comet a recent BBC report says of this
image how the comet came to take this
form is unknown however plasma scientist
CJ ransom replicated this form in the
laboratory applying an electrical
discharge to a mineral surface a related
item just a few days ago is the
announcement for that
the Rosetta missions target which was a
comet is now found to be a double Comet
the sensational new images show that
what we have is apparently what they
call a contact binary that is two
objects either attached or in contact
with one another
as they rotate the article says
referring to this comet that how it took
this form is unknown but just as the
asteroid Vesta and the formation of
those colossal so-called impact craters
can be explained electrically more
simply so too can this particular double
Comet it's been found in laboratory
experiments that when a discharge
strikes a mineral surface it forms small
spherules or small beads and quite often
those beads are joined together with a
very narrow neck so if comets are also
formed in a plasma discharge in an
electrical discharge to a planetary
surface the chances of forming these
double headed and maybe multiple headed
objects is quite high there is another
possibility and that was put forward by
Tom Van Flandern and he suggested that
based on the orbits of comets and
asteroids that they were formed in a
single event which he termed an
exploding planet without actually
explaining how that planet might explode
but this fits with the electrical view
that these objects are machined from a
planet surface electrically in a single
event or maybe a series of events and
therefore they will have orbits which
show a common origin and here we have an
object which is also commonly found when
an electric discharge strikes a mineral
surface we've seen that the notion that
planets are formed by accretion of
widely dispersed dust and gas just does
not work the electric universe model is
quite different in fact it has more in
common with the biological birth of an
object and that is that the electrical
nature of all cosmic bodies is such that
if they are disturbed or if there's a
powerful electric discharge to their
surface they may respond by actually
ejecting part of their matter into space
the reason for this is down to our
misunderstanding of gravity if you think
about it every atom has
almost all of the mass concentrated in
the central nucleus the positively
charged central nucleus in a
gravitational field therefore every atom
will be distorted by the nucleus being
pulled to one side of the atom in other
words towards the center of a planet for
instance that means that the atom itself
has the charge redistributed so that it
forms a tiny electric dipole with the
positive pole facing inwards towards the
center of the planet and the negative
pole facing towards the surface now in
large bodies like stars and gas giants
and so on pressure ionization will allow
some electrons to escape from the atoms
and they will tend to drift towards the
surface so that all cosmic bodies will
have some form of electric charge on
them it's a situation known in the trade
as an electret something that maintains
an electric charge now if you imagine
that a powerful electric discharge or
even a large body and a gravitational
field disturbing another body can cause
an instability and that instability can
be so great because it's electrical
rather than gravitational that the
response will be the ejection of matter
from one body into space that in turn
allows you to see the so-called
accretion disks where planets are
supposed to be formed according to the
standard theory are actually expulsion
discs it's just been an assumption that
they are accretion discs but we know
that stars expel matter our own star our
own Sun expels matter regularly into
space at great velocity so the very
notion that stars and gas giants and so
on can expel matter into space it makes
perfect sense and it also explains why
we find huge gas giant planets orbiting
very closely their parent in other
stellar systems so when astronomers say
that they need an entirely new theory of
planet formation they have one here it
is
the electric universe model
for continuous updates on space news
from the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
you
