welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info in April 2015 the NASA spacecraft
messenger completed its more than four
year journey in orbit about the planet
Mercury new discoveries in the mission
have emphasized just how mysterious
mercury is for planetary scientists
recurring features across the entire
planet have recently left planetary
scientists searching for answers the
messenger spacecraft has imaged towering
cliffs which scientists say resembled
giants Stairsteps
with the largest or than 600 miles long
and nearly two miles high scientists had
taken to referring to the cliffs as
so-called fault scarps based on the
theory that is mercury shrinks rock
material is being squeezed and then
pushed upward along fault lines however
if this theory were correct the cliffs
would be more uniformly distributed
across the planet instead for reasons
that make no sense to planetary
scientists the southern hemisphere of
Mercury features about twice as many of
these giant cliffs as the northern
hemisphere planetary scientist Thomas
waters says of this enigma it is a real
mystery none of the models we have at
present can account for the lopsided
number of scarps between the hemispheres
we still have a lot to learn about
Mercury there must be other factors at
play here we don't really have a grasp
on yet dramatic and seemingly
inexplicable hemispheric differences on
rocky bodies in our solar system is a
long-standing puzzle in planetary
science most striking is the planet Mars
where the southern hemisphere is
massively cratered in stark contrast to
a northern hemisphere which is barely
cratered at all and has had up to 6
miles of crust and death removed by some
unknown mechanism the northern and
southern hemispheres of Venus also
differ dramatically with the north
mountainous and uncluttered in the South
relatively flat and rolling with
features at planetary scientists
described as quote lava Plains the giant
asteroid Vesta also has a major global
dichotomy with a massively cratered
northern hemisphere in contrast to a
southern hemisphere with few craters and
a massive mouth
the Saturnian moon - features an
enormous crater at its leading
hemisphere nearly one-third the moon's
entire diameter which probably should
have shattered the moon if it was caused
by an impact while most of - is covered
with craters at least 40 kilometers in
diameter the south polar region of - has
almost no craters larger than 20
kilometers in diameter
it seems puzzling why so-called impact
craters over geologic time would strike
preferentially on one hemisphere of a
rocky body the answer of these
hemispheric differences may be more
simple yet dramatic than planetary
scientists have ever imagined the
electric universe proposes that
high-energy electrical discharges at a
variety of scales have sculpted the
surfaces of every rocky planet and moon
in our solar system this hypothesis
proposes two processes in which most of
the electrical scarring of rocky planets
occurred the first is the birth of rocky
planets and moons by ejection from a
larger body such as the gas giants
Jupiter Saturn Uranus and Neptune after
which the planet or moon is captured
electrically either by the Sun or by a
parent planet the second process is a
relatively recent epic of planetary
instability documented in cultural
records the world over in which planets
were aligned along their polar axis and
engaged in prolonged electrical
exchanges in both instances hemispheric
dichotomies are to be expected with
positively and negatively charged
regions being affected in dramatically
different ways as recently discussed on
this series experiments with electrical
discharges have successfully replicated
almost every familiar planetary feature
including sand dunes canyons mesas and
mountains
electric arcs have also reproduced the
puzzling cratering patterns in
characteristics we see on Mercury and
many other planetary bodies including
bizarre hexagonal craters crater chains
in the seemingly inexplicable pattern of
smaller craters appearing preferentially
on the rims of larger craters indeed in
the mid-1960s when exploring the mystery
of lunar craters amateur astronomer
Brian J Ford reproduced this and other
cratering patterns in experiments with
electrical discharges in a plasma oven
many other enduring mysteries of mercury
may be predictable in the electric
universe theory planetary scientists
still cannot explain why tidy mercury
has a tenuous atmosphere why the planet
has plasma tails resembling those of a
comet why the very small and very slowly
spinning planet has a magneto sphere
with a North and South Pole or why
so-called magnetic tornadoes resembling
corkscrews have been detected in
Mercury's magnetic field scientists also
cannot explain the apparent extreme
density of mercury which some have
attributed to an iron core however as
physicist wal Thornhill has explained
Mercury's relatively powerful
gravitational field does not reveal its
internal quantity of matter so much as
it indicates the level of the planets
internal electrical stresses in a 2008
article wal thornhill wrote a rotating
charge body will produce a dipolar
magnetic field in Mercury's case it's
strong gravitational field for its size
indicates a high level of internal
electrical polarization that means a
high surface charge so mercury slowly
rotating charge will produce a small
magnetic field other effects will modify
that field for example currents flow in
the plasma above the surface and are
induced in the surface of the planet and
there is remanent magnetism associated
with old cosmic Thunderbolt surface
scars the eccentric orbit of mercury
within the sun's electric field should
ensure electric current is flowing to
the planet throughout its year Thornhill
also notes the similarities between
mercury and the moon and suggests that
their respective characteristics speak
for the reefs
Electrical capture he writes it's very
interesting to note that mercury in the
moon have practically the same
negligible tilt of their equators to the
ecliptic in addition mercury has a large
orbital tilt referred to the ecliptic of
seven degrees and the moon five degrees
mercury in the moon may be related
their appearance certainly suggests so
the Sun captured mercury while the earth
captured the moon capture of a satellite
is a quick and easy process electrically
gravitationally it is very unlikely
Mercury's marked orbital tilt and
eccentric orbit suggests a recent
arrival there it is surely telling that
as our space probes reveal a never finer
detail the secrets of our planetary
neighbors the mysteries confronting
planetary scientists continue to deepen
for science to truly progress than
enduring mysteries like those on Mercury
demonstrate it's time to begin exploring
new theoretical horizons such as those
offered by the electric universe for
continuous updates on space news from
the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
