[Music]
[Music]
I like this cartoon it was from the
Rolling Stone and it shows Velikovsky as
introducing a touch of the Wild West
into celestial dynamics and that was
really my the magnet that drew me to
Velikovsky Velikovsky's astrophysics
started in his best-selling worlds in
collision where he threw down a gauntlet
to astronomers which in earlier
centuries as my friend dr. Irving Wolfe
said would have had him burned at the
stake his proposal of recent payoffs in
the planetary system exposed our worst
fear doomsday the end of the earth the
end of us astronomers who would have
happily thrown fuel on the flames
boasted that they hadn't read his book
because it disobeyed Newton's law of
gravity this was religious dogmatism not
science however many scholars did take
Velikovsky seriously I'm pleased to say
and some of those who took him most
seriously or at this conference so this
is a kind of a trip down memory lane
where I trace my path to where I am now
which may help some of you understand
some of the weird stuff that I come out
with I was born in during the Second
World War
and my father ended up an invalid I'm
afraid and so he was in and out of a
military hospital now while I was in
high school in the sort of midway
through he came home from one of his
visits to hospital with the book in his
hand and he said I think you might be
interested in this it was that red book
their worlds in collision well as a in
primary school I've been interested in
astronomy to the point where I would
memorize facts out of the encyclopedia
draw pictures and go to
cool and do a show-and-tell until the
kids in my class decided they'd had
enough of me and and told me in no
uncertain terms but the thing that
impressed me with this book was I'd
never seen the scientific method applied
so broadly he made leaps from one topic
one discipline to another that I had
never seen before
and as it says here his work crossed
over and stimulated new directions of
thought in a vast number of academic
fields which alone is no mean feat but
he also showed us as the Washington
evening star put it to not be afraid to
stake out new intellectual territory in
defiance of fashionable thought this is
from Henry Zeca
he challenged the mysteries of the
universe he sought answers to our most
perplexing questions discovered many and
inspired inquisitive minds to search for
more that alone will mark him as one of
the most profoundly influential scholars
of the century perhaps of all time now I
read this book as I said at high school
and I tried to interest friends there
and other students and I was surprised
at how disinterested they seemed to be
so and also had this difficulty how can
all of these teachers and people that
I've looked up to and all of these
encyclopedias I've read to be wrong so
wrong so I kind of let it drift for a
few years and then just before going to
university I read the book again and I
decided great the University is the
place to ask questions and get answers
well my university education disabuse me
of that idea because what I found was
either the answer I got back was not
related to the question I asked or else
I got actual hostility
and that surprised me it finally meant
that I got out of academia I began
postgraduate research yeah upper
atmosphere research but found that I was
being sort of used the slave labor and
decided to leave halfway through the
first post-grad year and joined IBM in
those years it was the Wild West of
computing really and I got to learn
everything because I never liked being
presented with a black box I had to know
how it worked that was part of my psyche
I think and so with IBM I learnt the
hardware the software the operating
system the compilers and so on which
eventually led me to being used as the
systems engineer for the National
University which when I looked back was
an incredible piece of luck because this
was at the time of the moon landings and
I had access to the professors the
libraries everything in those days they
didn't have combination locks and
electronic locks on everything so I
could walk freely and ask questions and
it actually had some friends amongst the
academic staff so that's a bit of that
background but after that book was
published of course there was a funeral
and I bought every book that came out I
was impatient to get Velikovsky's next
book and then some of the warriors came
into the fore after the triple is
ambushed and wrote books which I also
got CJ ransom who spoke yesterday his
age at Velikovsky which was published in
1976 and also Alfred de gracia compiled
a book the Velikovsky affair which is
well worth reading and that was
published in 1966 now one of the
tests of a good hypothesis because
there's another theory until it's being
tested experimentally or observational
ii is the more outrageous yet correct
prediction is the more weight it should
carry in favor of that hypothesis and
Velikovsky predicted that Venus had been
incandescent only a few thousand years
ago he said Venus is hot and this is a
small excerpt from a 1964 interview with
Eric Larrabee who was largely
responsible as dr. Wolfe said for the
publication of the worlds in collision
in the face of a lot of opposition
now you understand well that I had no
personal means to send a Madrid Metro if
I may be a devil's advocate just
momentarily I know what many of your
critics have said is that a prediction
like this is a matter of chance and they
imply that you were pointing things out
of the air well obviously you could have
said a great many other things about
penis you could have said Venus has two
moons or is made out of cottage cheese
or something other than saying that it
is hot what what led you in particular
to say quite contrary to to the belief
of the time the penis was a hot point
well first I will see what they said at
the end of my book is the very last two
sections before the section the end I
put two claims so the position which I
selected for them in my book by itself
proves the importance I gave to them
this were first venus must be very hot
Nastya must be very hot is very hot I
called the chapter thermal balance of
Venus and I said views gives off heat
not as usually supposed to be a planet
gets so much heat from the Sun and
reflects on much heat in the space it
leaves its own heat of course if it is a
body like other bodies in the solar
system of six million years or longer
order of course on you wouldn't expect
that it would give still give off heat
he now I said also that that it was
observed by contemporaries of those
events and after as a an incandescent
body at the same time still in 1959 it
was calculated and accepted that
the surface temperature of Venus is 17
degrees Celsius only about three degrees
above the temperature of the earth very
similar the world to earth in 1961 it
was founded by radio signals arriving
from Venus that it is very hot actually
600 Fahrenheit and your your reason for
believing this was that your theory
required that it be a new planet a young
planet in geological astronomical time
yes it was the cause of the needle heat
but also the result of the short but
we're storming history all this money
and let me also say that 600 degree of
1959 was one of the reason to send the
marina probe to find that it is not so I
heard a man scientists from Jefferson
Lab who speaking before the triple a
convention in Philadelphia meet another
expressed his hope that it will be found
the temperature much lower what was
found it was still higher not 600 800
degrees hmm now there is an outrageous
yet correct prediction that alone should
have galvanized really curious
scientists to investigate his work
further dr. Irving Wolfe talked about
what happened in 1974 the triple a s San
Francisco meeting in in that meeting
which was organized as a symposium
Velikovsky's challenge to science it was
organized by professors Donald Goldsmith
Owen Gingerich Ivan King and attended by
Immanuel Velikovsky and professors
Donald W Goldsmith Norman W stone
Cal sagen J Darrell Mulholland and Peter
Huber Fred gen'l'men who was one of the
inner circle described as an ill planned
didactic ambush that failed to discredit
Velikovsky and actually had an
unexpected backlash on his detractors
that was written in an article called a
kick in the ass
and David stove is an Australian
philosopher and also one of the people
who doesn't conform said we all grizzle
about specialization professionalization
departmental empire-building etc but
unless and until you read the details of
this case you can have no idea of the
pitiless ferocity or the organizational
muscle that organized science can
display that was in an article called
the Velikovsky story the scientific
mafia that other book that's on there
this is to the scientists confront
Velikovsky and the other one is
callously again in the manual villa
cough ski which is quite a detailed
piece of work by Charles Gyllenhaal who
is one of Velikovsky's warriors now Cal
say again did say something about
Velikovsky on the program cosmos and let
me have a look here it shows a double
standard I think and also the fact that
science is only trivially
self-correcting today or other words
during normal or settled science you can
see that the herding instinct in science
is very strong and this has only been
made worse by the global internet type
of groupthink amongst them and the
double standard in evidence in scrutiny
one side has chosen evidence is
another's anathema extraordinary claims
require only ordinary evidence
settle science requires a bomb under it
to move it experts in my opinion are the
last to know when a fundamental change
arrives the electric universe for
example but when you look back all big
changes even the idea of sending rockets
to the moon which said to be impossible
by experts heavier than air flight was
to be impossible so the last thing you
do is ask a gray-haired expert what the
future holds because they will be the
last to know
so I show this now just to get an
impression I think so again at this
point felt some guilt for what he'd done
there are many hypotheses in science
which are wrong that's perfectly right
it's the aperture to finding out what's
right science is a self-correcting
process to be accepted new ideas must
survive the most rigorous standards of
evidence and scrutiny the worst aspect
of the Velikovsky affair is not that
many of his ideas were wrong or silly or
in gross contradiction to the facts
rather the worst aspect is that some
scientists attempted to suppress
Velikovsky's ideas the suppression of
uncomfortable ideas may be common in
religion or in politics but it is not
the path to knowledge and there's no
place for it in the endeavor of science
we do not know beforehand where
fundamental insights will arise from
about our mysterious and lovely solar
system and the history of our study of
the solar system shows clearly that
accepted and conventional ideas are
often wrong and that fundamental
insights can arise from the most
unexpected sources yet as I said say
again is disingenuous and should have
taken his own advice
he was a key suppressor at the 1974
triple a s meeting here's an example of
what I mean about experts being the last
to know when a paradigm shift has begun
in the Scientific American it says we
are all impoverished by the selective
rejection ism of modern science all of
the taboos in science in this excerpt
Velikovsky is troubled by the way ponse
reports the San Francisco meeting and
this was shown at the Portland sorry the
meeting in at McMaster University in
1974 I had some information secondhand
from Milton who had some inside
information he said Villa cops he was
assured by the editors of ponse that
Ralph juergen's would oversee the final
report usually Velikovsky lectures
without notes at the San Francisco
meeting he set to read his paper because
he was fearful of omitting important
points he was asked from the floor if
any of his predictions had been
disproved he answers he knows of none
Velikovsky is angered that ponse did not
print his response to Sagan's challenge
to name which organic organic compound
has a refractive index of one point four
four and has infrared absorption
features at three point four micrometers
and eleven point two micrometers at the
meeting Velikovsky did answer both
questions at length these are important
scientific bits of scientific evidence
now this film shot there in June 1974 at
the McMaster meeting is something that I
did on a brand new codec 400-foot
cartridge sound camera it was something
that codec had finally done that was to
introduce sound super 8 cameras I had
taken my own I'd built my own radio
microphone but it unfortunately suffered
a lot of interference various times
during the meeting and this is the only
one that has good sound so this has
never been seen before right would we
create a gap of ourselves
I'll see will repay them too so of
course who have no admittance to answer
publication are welcome to pass a high
hopes of fancy will come to its
beginning can be again a small is a
beginning but regime as
now the end of the world and was all the
instrument in bringing you today here
and thank you once more and I will
probably save you as for Joe's continue
what I could not see here in at the
buffer to see once more thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
so that was my first meeting with
Velikovsky and you saw the reference to
me by coming from the ends of the world
[Laughter]
and I have here some photographs taken
at that meeting on the left is
Velikovsky standing to answer a question
from in the audience he his daughter
wrote to me and asked for a copy of that
photo and I sent it to him and received
they a thank you from him you can see
some of the crowd there I can just pick
out my wife up the back there somewhere
and but there are a lot of the the
Warriors visible in some of these
photographs and on the riders Steve
Talbert now it's interesting that my
connection with the talbert's started
with Steve because I had written to him
once I knew that this conference was on
and stating what I had done and my
interest and so on and he invited me to
sit on one of the panels so I got to
meet people there and it was the there
of course that I also met bill Mellon
and was very impressed by his opening
address another shot of the McMaster
meeting there's one of our Scottish
scholars sitting in the middle there he
did a lot of work with the Society for
interdisciplinary studies which was the
UK of the Velikovsky and movement if you
like to put it that way
there's many people I can pick out of
that but it gives you some idea of the
crowd also speaking at that meeting and
somebody who had also had inspired me I
put him there's a leftenant of
Velikovsky really on
scientific side Ralph juergen's I've
tried everything I can think of to get
more photos of Ralph but that one was
taken at the Grand Canyon and I've been
in touch with a good friend of his was
dr. Earl Milton the physicist from
Lethbridge Alberta and I've been in
touch with earl milton's son and he's
looked through all of the material that
he has of his father's but i've not been
able to get another photograph of him
which is a great pity bill Milton wrote
about him in 1973 and 1974 Jurgens did
yeoman service in preparing Velikovsky
for San Francisco or serving as Ponce's
physical science gatekeeper Jurgens
served as Velikovsky's research advisor
providing invaluable interpretation
which avoided many pitfalls within the
sea of commentaries now being made about
the state of planet Venus Ralph also
coached the manual about how to present
himself when he faces his opponents at
San Francisco this is one of the
inspirational things that I got from
Ralph juergen's
if the Sun and the stars indeed succeed
in fusing lighter elements to form
heavier ones other relevant activities
carried out more or less in plain sight
in their atmospheres having asked this
question though Jergens nevertheless
went on to estimate the electrical
energy and voltages based on no input
from the nuclear process in other words
if there is nuclear processes going on
in the photosphere he merely calculated
the electrical energy in required to
provide the radiant energy output of
course to say this flies in the face of
particle physics because the conditions
in that 5000 degree or so photos
is not sufficient of course to even
begin to talk about nuclear fusion
according to standard thinking he says
here and this was a key to his model and
one which is now being tested by
Sapphire the electric Sun hypothesis
assigns the solar body the role of an
anode that of the higher potential
electrode in a cosmic electric discharge
that's the simplicity of the model and
also the the genius of Ralph
was to identify the fact that all of the
detailed features that we actually
observe to be seen in an anode discharge
and of course the most confronting thing
he said was the modern Astrophysical
concept that describes the sun's energy
to thermonuclear reactions deep inside
in the solar interior is contradicted by
nearly every observable aspect of the
Sun that should have been a huge warning
bell in the halls of the academia but as
they say when you're woken by a loud
noise you get very annoyed it was in a
few years later in 1979 I was working
for the Australian government of briefly
in Washington DC and while there I took
the opportunity my family was with me
I rang Velikovsky at his home and
mentioned our meeting in 1974 and I
asked whether it be possible to visit
and talk to him about the work that I
was interested in he and his wife
graciously had us there on the 29th of
April 1979 and it was there that he in
answer to my question what is that we
don't understand about gravity he gave
me this small pamphlet cosmos without
gravitation
it was a synopsis of a more
comprehensive document written from 1941
to 1943
so here I'll give you some of the
chapter headings to give you the flavor
of what's inside first of all and this
is fundamental gravitation is an
electromagnetic phenomenon so now you
can see where I got it from this is
where it all started
he gave a list of phenomena not in
accord with the theory of gravitation he
looked at the attraction between two
atoms and this is something that had
occurred to chemists the molecular
attraction between atoms can sometimes
be down to dipole forces the fact that
the atoms are distorted in a molecule
gives them one side of the molecule are
slightly more positively charged than
the other and this of course is a
feature of j'arrive Pollock's work where
the water molecule is distorted so that
one side is more positive than the other
you have a positive and a negative
dipole he covers the attraction of
bodies toward the earth the time of a
saint and descent of a pendulum because
he thought they should be different and
the effective charge on the weight of
the body if I get a chance I'll talk
about why that idea really doesn't work
but that took a long while to figure out
and of course his statement that
attraction repulsion you'll notice he's
talking about repulsion between bodies
as well because the dipole can repel as
well as attract and electromagnetic
circumduction act in the solar system
that was his claim he also covered the
anomaly of mercury and other phenomena
where he tries to explain them these are
some of the phenomena not in accord with
the theory of gravitation according to
Velikovsky water is 800 times heavier
than air but millions of tons of water
droplets are held miles above the ground
in clouds and Jerry Pollock I think has
shown the way to under
stand that mountains don't exert the
pool expected by gravity that massive
rock should attract a plumb-bob slightly
towards it it doesn't so that gave rise
to the theory of isostasy where you have
to have a mountain underneath the earth
to kind of balance out the forces so the
pendulum actually points towards the
center of the earth this is the kind of
extremes you have to go to when your
theory doesn't really work gravity is
stronger over oceans than land the
spinning gaseous son should be oblate
it's almost a perfect sphere gravity
can't restore orbital perturbations
there is nothing to restore a slight
departure from your orbit caused by
another body so that over time the whole
thing becomes chaotic in fact it has
been calculated I think by the orbital
dynamicists that the solar system should
not remain stable for more than a few
million years beyond that time it should
be destroyed by chaotic behavior the
sweep of a comet's tail around the Sun
that's not a gravitation it's not
explained by our gravitational effects
and Laplace he notes calculated the
speed of gravity must be in excess of 50
million times the speed of light so
these are all the keys that I had given
to me by Velikovsky in particular this
his idea this is his idea here each atom
is made up of positive and negative
electricity and though neutral as a
whole and these are his words may form
an electric dipole when subject to an
external electric force attraction is
not due to inherent gravitational
properties of matter
I wouldn't say mass but instead to the
well-known electrical properties of
attraction
two dipoles arrange themselves like bar
magnets on a slippery surface if you
just throw them on the surface they'll
try and attach north-south north-south
and daisy-chain and there they will
always swing to try and attract one
another
however if grab and this is the
arguments against that simple model and
Velikovsky gave me that document on the
basis that it was a preliminary thinking
it certainly had a lot of questions left
if gravity were that simple an electric
field across a polarizable dielectric
that is like in a capacitor shouldn't
modify gravity markedly because they are
you're distorting the atoms in an
electric field but it doesn't it does
slightly in the by field Brown effect
where you capacitor tends to move in the
direction of one of the charge plates
but that doesn't explain gravity and it
should be shielded by a metal conductor
because this is we're dealing with a
bulk electrical field it isn't also the
atomic dipole force is too strong it's
the force that holds molecules together
one of the forces and if we were held to
the earth like a molecule we'd be you
know maybe a few centimeters thick on
the surface so having been given in 1979
the keys I had what they call the
prepared mind I was on the lookout for a
classical physics approach the kind of
approach that got us to the beginning of
the 20th century and has given us all of
the technology we see now very little of
the 20th century beyond about the 1920s
has contributed much at all to modern
technology
it came in a tiny advertisement in the
Scientific American in December 1981 and
it advertised the Journal of classical
physics and the first issue by Ralph
Sainsbury who was the originator of this
journal was called electron structure
now Velikovsky had shown that it was the
structure of matter which may give rise
to the electric force and if the
electron has structure that's important
so this was one of the keys he what he
did was to repeat the atomic orbital
model of smaller charge particles inside
the electron and proton so imagine them
as tiny atoms it's a repeated pattern
the kind of fractal approach to looking
at science and by assuming the electrons
have this simple structure ralph
explained magnetism he was able to
derive amperes law just by based on this
simple model most importantly this model
requires for an electron to remain
stable that the electric force operates
between all of the bits that make up
that electron instantly if there's any
delay then the particles don't know
where each other are and the whole thing
flies apart
in fact he calculated that the particles
if they were free to move outside the
electron would travel from here to the
far side of the Andromeda galaxy in one
second now this gives you an idea of the
speed of the electric force and that
gives you the idea of the speed of
gravity it also simplified things here
we have the electric force explains
magnetism and gravity and classical
physics was all about simplification not
inventing more and more forces and
particles to get a Nobel Prize it was to
try and find out the real nature of
matter and the thing about
or one of the principles I've worked on
ever since getting all of these ideas is
that the simple of the model the more
likely it is to be correct and also this
model provides a real basis for quantum
behavior cause-and-effect
re-instated quantum theory got rid of
cause and effect
Einstein got rid of any means of
measuring things because he removed any
standards between them here the two of
them they got rid of physics of just R
it also discards the wave-particle
duality of life rough did some
experiments at great cost to himself
which I didn't prove his view of it but
I think it it helped me to understand
light as a wave motion only I don't
think I'll miss around with this
understands equivalence where you know
gravitational mass in an inertial mass
are said to be equivalent they're not in
fact even the picture there shows that
the guy standing on the earth is being
attracted to all the atoms in the earth
which means he's being attracted out to
the horizon and the others from the
other side of the earth it's nothing
like being pushed in or up in a lift or
in a rocket the equivalence in that
diagram is not there Velikovsky said
that the Equality of inertial and
gravitational mass is a remarkable
accidental coincidence in Newton's
system and he's right it's impossible to
adopt Einsteins equivalence principle of
inertia and gravity because an outside
observer cannot observe the earth with
all the lifts traveling in different
directions once again you've lost is
your measurement standard of your place
in the universe through Einsteins work
everything is relative
it suggests the equivalence is the same
because subatomic electric dipoles are
responsible for both the attractive
force of gravity and the repulsive force
of inertia
exactly the same process so you can
expect them to be equivalent once you
understand it Velikovsky said it is
probable that besides carrying a charge
the ground turns all of its atoms as
dipoles towards the ionosphere and
that's what I've been showing the last
few years in my presentations like this
and the result is that you have the
positive heavy nuclei drawn towards the
center of mass and the other pole the
negative poles facing outwards and this
changes our view of celestial dynamics
immediately but this is Velikovsky
didn't take this step in fact it took me
decades to take this step because it
raises all sorts of other issues I'm
pleased to say that I mean this infers
that the insides of celestial bodies are
hollow because you've got a repulsive
force pushing outwards and a repulsive
force from the rest of the matter in the
universe pushing inwards and the most
stable form in that case is a thick
spherical shell which means that we know
nothing about what's inside the earth or
the Sun or any other body or the moon I
was on well to say at various times in
my journey in the electric universe I've
come to a point where I've said oh my
god
how am I ever going to tell anyone about
this because you know it's really
confronting I mean it's like going from
the Flat Earth to a spherical earth and
it takes time to get over that until I
find enough evidence that I feel I can
actually give a story which is
convincing and I knew that I had to look
for seismic evidence to show that it's a
shell and not a solid sphere or even a
solid and liquid sphere part of the
evidence came from the Apollo
moon landings the first ones where they
crashed the one of the the Lunar Module
back into the moon having placed a
seismometer on the moon so this was the
first seismic experiment on any other
body than the earth and what was the
result the moon rang like a bill for
almost an hour
well that one set the geologists back on
their heels because the most obvious
answer is that the moon is hollow
but of course they couldn't accept that
so they've made a really complicated
story to try and get around it but then
I came across that somebody sent me a
link to work by a South African he was
also in I tears I had been from all of
my career and he'd come to look at deep
earthquakes because he was interested in
this the old stories of Hollow Earth and
theories because they gave back hundreds
of years
and he found that the best answer to the
seismic evidence was that the earth is a
shell a hollow shell and when I looked
at his evidence he'd done a very good
job of analyzing and I realized here we
have sufficient evidence to really
investigate further you'll notice too
that the outside of every celestial body
will have a negative pole facing
outwards it's like having the same pole
of a magnet in a shape of a sphere and
if you have two of those bodies you try
and push them together you all know what
it's like trying to push like poles of a
magnet magnets together so all stars and
planets in the universe repel each other
with an inverse square law this answered
a question that troubled Helton up
because his research which I think is
outstanding showed that the universe is
balanced it's not collapsing it's not
expanding it seems to be just hanging
there and you can't do that if gravity
is pulling everything together so this
answered that question to gravity on the
cosmic scale is repelled
if Newton's attractive force has a very
limited sphere of influence there is an
internal gravitational field that is
repulsive and the interiors of all
celestial bodies are not what we think
the solar system Velikovsky said
attraction repulsion and electromagnetic
circumduction act in the solar system
but of course Velikovsky was unaware
that the plasma shields electric fields
so is much more complex than that there
was no mention of either of how you
establish feedback to have settled the
solar system down from the chaotic state
just a few thousand years ago to the
present clockwork order the Sun had made
planets and satellites comets are all
charged bodies and are injured
interdependent this is Velikovsky once
again the Sun is charged negatively with
respect to the earth now this statement
is incorrect because J of Jergens later
work the Sun is a magnet the form of the
corona suggests a strong magnetic field
well Villa cops key was the first one to
talk about magnetism on other bodies
really in it with any coherent
hypothesis the bacon but he said the
sun's charge and rotation must produce a
stronger magnetic field because a
rotating charged body must produce a
dipole magnetic field that's been
dismissed because when they calculate
how much charge you need there so it's
impossible that they're using plain
electrostatics that forget plasma the
charged planets move as charged bodies
at right angles to the sun's magnetic
field that's what he thought in other
words it was more like electric motor
than and this is the point pardon me
gravity exists and gravity is a special
form of the electric force almost
identical to magnetism it's just that
those two forces are created under
different circumstances one of the free
subatomic level and the other one
trapped in an atom but they're identical
to that extent now the big journey came
when the Saturn story came up because I
read Dave Taylor's book published in
1980 as soon as it came out and writer
Cardona had been an inspiration to me
ever since the Chronos and ponse
articles began to be published and it
was in the fall of 1977 in Chronos three
number one do i do published the sun of
night which referred to saturn which
caught my attention of course and
Radha's research was sufficiently well
documented and thought through that I
used his findings as a basis for trying
to understand the history of the solar
system the recent history because I
wanted to know you know where did Venus
come from where did the earth come from
where did Mars come from what had
happened and could it be explained in in
proper classical physics so he and I
corresponded quite a lot and he
published many of my articles in Chronos
so the two of us this is where myth can
become science instead of as we have now
science becoming myth and the resulting
cosmological picture that emerged had to
be simple and coherent but as it turns
out the story that unfolded would make
2001 a Space Odyssey look like child's
play I'd love to see this work
in an IMAX theater dr. L Milton was a
good friend and visited us at the time
of Halley's Comet appearance and stayed
with us in Canberra I took this photo in
1983 I had been posted by the government
to London twice which was very unusual
in the 80s and I had invited to speak to
the SAS group over there it was with the
SAS group that I began my first writing
of articles and having them published in
1980 he and Jergens independently
concluded that a comet nucleus would be
scarred and the this is a direct quote
like an electrode in an arc over time
the cometary nucleus should become
cratered and pitted when a spacecraft
finally achieves a rendezvous with one
of the Comets scientists are going to be
surprised to find a surface pitted like
that of the moon Mars or mercury and
that was written at the time when
scientists had never seen a comet
surface the first flyby took place six
years later in England I caught up with
Eric crew who was a disciple of Charles
Bruce and you'd be surprised this is one
of the things that continues to surprise
me is that there seems to be no new
ideas under the Sun because you find
that people in the past have had the
same ideas but they've only gone so far
and not put the whole picture together
which I see as my job is putting the big
picture together dr. Bruce is lightning
research with the electrical research
Association and the attendance at Sydney
Chapman's 1941 Kelvin lecture on the Sun
led to the application of these ideas to
cosmic phenomena and to a new
all-electric universe Charles Bruce
wrote the surfaces of stars can be
explained as lightning discharges which
are observed in the atmosphere of the
earth in 1944 that was only a toddler
then
wrote in fact it may well be that both
Jupiter and Saturn were at one time -
stars and that their satellite systems
were formed as the result of minor or
planetary Nova outburst I couldn't have
said it better myself
Eric did a lot of work trying to get
Bruce acknowledged for his work and I
only missed him seeing him on one of my
occasions in England I realized before
he died which was unfortunate I've
managed to meet most of the people I
wanted to see because the job took me
around the world very often now 1994 and
this is 20 years after the Portland
making sorry after the McMaster meeting
Dave Talbert put on a international
conference called Villa Kowski ancient
myth and modern science and this is
where I saw Dave's presentation he
missed mine I was talking about
Velikovsky and the evidence for having
been recent recently born and I said to
him I think we should join forces
because our combined story is far more
powerful than either one of us alone
I've severed a little together with a
film that might be of interest if that's
a good time okay Mel and Amy Aitchison
were amongst the first people I met when
I went back in 1996 December and camped
on Dave's office floor for a month and
then we put on a meeting in Portland in
1997 Mel and Amy introduced me to help
nap and there was an inspiration another
inspiration and then in May 2000 help
nap spoke at our conference along with
Tony Pratt whom you've heard a lot about
and it was a historic event more
important I would say than the Solvay
conference all that those decades
earlier
Alton Hobbs views on cosmology published
in seeing red set the goal posts for
electric universe
cosmology are done a lot of work on the
Sun and the solar system this painted
the the bigger picture and the whole
thing became a more coherent cosmology
this is Tony paraffin I the quest to
understand Velikovsky's electrified
cosmos led to plasma cosmology a subject
ignored by astrophysicists despite its
engineering heritage and successful
predictions here was a critical juncture
when Anthony when Tony joined us at the
request of Dave Talbot for a conference
in May 2000 Tony's research gave us the
opportunity to verify the convergence of
the myth a historical record with
high-energy electrical discharges in
space plasma and this is some film of
the historic Portland meeting one of the
gas giants and then two of orbits and
they circularized within so so like
we're
anyway we see the our objects the
galaxies with ejections long line and we
see all their galaxies along any line
the way around the problem is that if
they come out this way without a and
component they only go up and down and
they stay along so that I think we have
perfectly good impairments for objects
being formula on the line and staying
along the data creates patterns that
have to be explained I mean this
configuration as it has been
reconstructed after this point has some
incredibly specific components and
interact between them and it is in fact
actually at that level of greater deal
that the power of the model itself just
begins to flower and it becomes
extremely compelling because it's so
specific the relationships are so
specific and it's so ludicrous how could
it possibly be confirmed but you know
exactly what needs to be firmed because
it's defined by these relationships you
go and you and there it is and it's a
puzzle for the I mean we have proved
this a thousand times
Deb and I were having and we would have
these incredible experiences just the
things we look for once we can identify
what should be found well be found I
have one more little clip to show and
this was a science meeting in London
where Tony and I were speaking I was
talking on the electric universe and the
certain configuration or how to explain
the impossible I was followed by tony
peratt
on the origins of icons from antiquity
it was very refreshing to to to listen
to wall stock on the
universe and guess I play a rose some
someone over role in establishing what
is called the defies me and verse
mention about the same thing a very
refreshing to see that uh feel that I've
worked in for gosh two-and-a-half
decades or so and right now I'm working
in something very closely related but it
is but it's different it's petroglyphs
okay it's not galaxies or rotation that
getting fields in galaxy switch which
websites are any number of publications
but it's carvings on rock by man in
prehistory now why why are these
important this is a picture that I took
on the Navajo Reservation and which is
absolutely typical of Federalists that
one will find around the world as I'm
going to show petroglyphs have a
definite orientation they also change in
morphology and shape depending on the
latitude that they're found on earth and
this is typically visited about their
six degrees latitude north so it's more
and
99 but but perfectly typical around the
earth and the duck shake hands up here
everywhere it says it's well as these
other symbols and I'm going to go into
about why my first introduction to was
by David Talbott I got with don't media
missed by accident and learned something
about what they were doing and then
action action Vickers and and I looked
at the pictures and I said where did you
get these pictures because I what am I
gonna do now
no leave it there thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
