[Music]
[Music]
well it's a pleasure to be here this is
my third time in about four years so
it's a it's nice to be here take you
guys for coming back for the break I'm
sure you have a nice lunch and I will
try to entertain you with comments so I
will talk about reactions that actually
occur or that we suspect actually
occurred in comments okay all right the
actual title that I decided to come up
with it's actually bolted driven
chemistry and dark cool involve
electrochemistry as also it could also
indicate maybe some plasma chemistry but
in this particular case I'll be talking
mostly about gas surface reactions are
actually driven by voltage or electric
fields all right so this is the unlike
my talk I have about 36 37 slides so you
can get a sense of where I am any point
in a given time and this is where I'd be
covering a big talking about charge
separation be talking about electric
feel such a pressure over here electric
fields and how they actually move irons
positive negative and I'll talk about
dust grains voltage driven chemical
reactions that we observe and finally I
give a few examples of type of reactions
they rewrite order actions that we
suspect that might be happening okay all
right so let me give you a reminder
first why this topic and why is the
context of this topic so this is one of
the anomalies that we observe with the
standard sublimation model that has been
in place for the last 50 plus years we
actually see that each it's a particular
comment actually has its own personality
and we know now that you know it has
different features because it's
composition is different okay
the presence of ions and electrons near
the nucleus has been shown to be there
in a scale that is actually more than
will be expected is photo ionization and
I'll talk about that I talked about last
time and also mentioning again this time
there's this situation where we have
what appears would be allowed outgassing
a lot of boil tiles in the in the coma
as a function of heliocentric distance
it doesn't quite match so you see that
there's something else going on I
mentioned last time I mentioned this
time as well
active Jets in the dark side of the
nucleus which are basically not exposed
to Sun radiation sorry this is something
that I talked before I'm not going to
talk at this time but this is a point to
keep in mind and the origin our common
outburst is still that clear I think
some of you actually mentioning and look
at it from the electrical perspective as
a capacitor and the presence of a large
hydrogen gas cloud is something that I
talked last about two times so I will
not cover it this time right so I'm
gonna start here by this work of
warcraft where he basically proposed a
model that they actually explained the
rotation of galaxies and it is model he
actually was very enough to actually
consider the electrostatic force okay so
here is basically a figure in this in
this paper and what he concludes is that
at the at the end of the day he said you
need to have a charge of about ten to
thirty first coulombs to actually
explain the actual rotation on on the
galaxy's that you see on top of gravity
of course it says it's gravity but they
were top of that you need to have a
necessary force this how much colors you
need but he goes beyond that he says
that positive charge is actually located
at the centre and the
where you see the negative charge will
be there and the periphery so we have a
chat separation at this particular case
now out I will extend this chat
separation observe and apply the
property of vitality in the universe
okay which applies to different scales
and I'm gonna be also brave to say that
we will see the size of separation or
charge even at the atomic level when we
have a nucleus which is positively
charged and the negative charge is
actually an electric cloud that actually
at the periphery or the surrounding of
the nucleus so I beginning to see here
where your custom is that this there's a
fatality here there is a current
basically this distribution is similar
are different scales and so I again
being brave again and I was you know I
will say that perhaps this is also and
maybe also supported by evidence that
this is how in a solar system we also
have chat separation and I think we will
be talking about it at least in this
community for quite some time that this
is the kind of observation that we see
so I'm going to stay with it and just
note that also this you know charge
neutrality but it doesn't really mean
that for instance you know at the atomic
level we have ions possibly negative so
you can also have not necessarily in
Chechen try it all the time so maybe you
can apply in the reverse way maybe at a
galactic level you might have galaxy's
that would be you know overly negative
charge the only positive charge that
also happen based on the property of
fatality that I'm applying to to these
observation now here what I have is a
cartoonish way an idealized charge
separation that we have be occurring at
the solar system so I put the Sun here
as positive charge and then the end the
periphery or there at the end of
hemisphere which is actually a sphere
it's not two dimensions I have here will
be negative charge these are idealized
but most likely what's gonna happen or
was happy
happening yes Electric electrochemistry
is the charge we actually be not quite
as idolized and this is being shown
recently in the last few years when we
talk about dual layers but I'm not doing
this time but the charge would be a
little bit intermingle so what we really
want to look at is at the net charge
with a net charge what is the net
positive charge where is the net
negative charge and I just want to
highlight here is that we know for
instance that the substructure of you
call him I namely feel I like to call
the electric fields good it's easy for
me to understand the solar system level
is not homogeneous it's actually quite
complex and I based these comments on
the oxidation the comments behave quite
differently you can have the same
comment on the same you know route and
they were actually not follow the same
behavior right so that means the idea
electric field or the voltage
differential being experienced by the
comment along his path it's not the same
every time so I think Scott dr. Scott
mentioned my native flux ropes which me
as electric fields and these are the
fields are dynamic okay so that's part
of the so structure that I see and what
I want to highlight is that if we if
this model is correct
I think I'm mentioning this for the
third time it is - correct what we
should be able to see is that the net
motion okay of positive and negative
ions should be such that the positive
ions would go from the Sun in a ready
form upwards in this form so you see
what the positive ions the Hylian plus
protons and so on so forth even heavy
metals they should actually have a
tendency to move to the periphery or the
hemisphere because that's what the
negative charge is so it would be a
natural tendency for the test for this
particles to move in that direction now
happening between allow happy mitosis
now it's not a simple model but a net
charge should be in that direction right
and when you have positive charges
moving in one direction the negative
charges would like to follow especially
electrons which are faster because the
nice heavy they were also intermingle
but you can also have of course
electrons move along with the positive
ions in that's in the same direction as
well but the net charge should be the
opposite so net charge I should be able
to see electrons going or moving towards
the Sun I'd like to to see that so this
model should say that this is this
what's happening
it's not clear at this stage we know for
instance up the positive ions definitely
move rarely from the away from the Sun
towards the preferred the hemisphere
okay now how will post profile would
look like based on the modeled edges
survive mention here well this is this
is a diagram that I have on the left
readily radially constricted circles
they specify distance and on the right
here what I have here is a graph of
voltage versus distance so how will it
look like
so if I just need to look at the
positive across to the Sun or any beyond
the surface of the Sun my voltage world
would be arbitrarily positive and then
as I see the distance I see this as a
function of distance my voltage will
drop okay so in I drug use by my hand
and I think it's properly okay because
this voltage drop is a gradual
job oh it should be gradual gradual
watch it drop and it's going to be is
now gonna be beautiful
okay it's not going to be nicely
exponentially or pulling polynomial it's
gonna be up and down and so I expect
this this diagram this picture here this
cartoon is probably okay and then when
we go all the way to the periphery or
the hemisphere well it would be we would
have a more stable voltage differential
now when I look at this voltage
differential here then I don't need to
have just just because of suppression of
charge I don't need to have any motor
EMF force or anything to explain the
motion or higher
electrons let me know I have a voltage
differential here and electors will move
towards a positive end and ions will
move towards the negative end just so
they like the chemical concept of motion
of ions it's just a start but I cannot
really explain it such a separation so I
would need the engineers and so on to
actually explain why is there such
separation on the level of the universe
galaxy solar system at some level okay
that's something I can explain now let's
take a look at the comet so I've been
talking about the solar system so this
is the Sun flat environment and
periphery or the or the end of the
hemisphere if I look at the if I take is
I think I think of a comet as being a
electrode so I go back to at the
chemistry and say you know I take the
comet as being negative charge electrode
okay in a plasma environment it's that
is both negative and positive charge
depending on location or hillock hence
its distance from the Sun then the the
profile will look like this so this is
the voltage profile over here we have
voltage you have distance and in this
model I have this the the center the
center here is negative charge that
would be my comment 67p or any other
comment and because this is
electrochemical model then I would have
a layer of positive ions and they will
have a layer or negative ions so the
profile basically would look like this
okay there would be a voltage drop from
the surface to the plasma environment on
the comment in this in this case is
shown as a radical drop okay doesn't
have to be that way but this is how
showing is in this diagram and if there
would be another gradual
voltage drop at the end as we extend far
away from the nucleus okay so again this
voltage involve there will be electric
fields present this is a non zero
electric field and that would be enough
to provide energy required for ions to
move about collide and give rise to
chemical reactions
all right so that's a DC in the first
part basically talk about how such
separations give these two electric
fields now I'm gonna go and talk about
how the electric fields has been shown
to provide the energy required for ions
to well move about okay so what I'm
gonna do here is just give you a few
examples of
studies that I already been done okay
and this particular example here what I
have is a graph that shows shows me here
spectral density when in fear and here
is the frequency of this magnetic field
which shows that is between
approximately two nano tell sort of
probably fallen details I think we're
talking about the solar solar system
solar flux here and this many fields
shows all different kind of oscillations
but in this particular case it shows a
frequency of falling nearly Hertz which
is a little bit different from anything
has been described before this
corresponds to 67p and it basically
shows is that this exactly feel in the
order of final amps per meter square
okay close to the nucleus
another example here I have what is
possibly be island flux versus distance
from the Sun okay and why shows in this
particular study is that what ice
assumed to be water ions okay so
actually in this particular paper what
it shows is that you know based on the
technique use is able to detect the ions
you know the velocity that they come in
is actually the speed as well direction
but they don't really know what kind of
our it is so they refer to another study
that says okay around around the nucleus
of Comet 67p we have a large number of
ions that appear to be water based on
spectroscopic data so based on these
into relationship which is I think it's
okay is fair academically it's fair
but it doesn't really mean that is what
it is out there okay but it's possible
so I'm not gonna say it's not what it is
but I just gonna give you a reminder
that how the conclusion were came about
okay
it could be something else it could be
all the boiler towels it's a la puerta
67p there are also there so the
important thing is that these these
islands do have velocity okay and what
do the kinetic energy come from
especially since in the backyard space
we're talking about very low
temperatures okay
so genetically speaking well they need
to have energies coming from somewhere
and so it's directed fields that provide
the energy the energy in is given here
there are two types we can see here the
cold water irons 10 to 15 electron volts
and hot is a very water ions 120 to
5,000 like the most this is tremendous
amount of energy in tennis I mean at
least at least for the chemical
perspective that we're talking about
here just to give you a background or
context if I want to ionize hydrogen
you know atomic hydrogen atom I just
only need thirteen point one with the
two point two electron volts
maybe a little bit more safe 14 electron
volts so you were talking about a very
large amount of energy okay
in my opinion this is good enough
already to actually strip our electrons
from the surface of the nucleus provided
the electric field is being experienced
on the surface of the on the nucleus of
course right now
why was discovery here this is very
interesting is that when you look at the
distance this part here when we go from
three point six to two astronomical
units distance or the comet 67p from the
from the Sun okay
the was called the water island flux so
in in in the terminology that's being
used on the model it's always outgassing
because it's always the gases coming out
from the nucleus which is not clear it's
verified definitely not clear anymore
okay
it's increases right so the number one x
increases but as a function of solar
flux okay it is in the case there is not
a linear relationship the expectation
could be is that you increase the solar
flux you'll be able to see more
sublimation and therefore you're gonna
have a great amount of bottles
well it's definitely not linear and in
my opinion there's all the factors
involved in here okay and I'll mention
that in other slides I was I think it's
happening here so here's another example
of again electron electron in this case
these lectures na+ ions that have been
detected in the coma
they also been detected near the nucleus
and these electrons also are was called
super thermal for hyper thermal which
means that they have a low kinetic
energy we're talking about hundreds a
few thousands electron volts of energy
of this electron so all this is being
all these energies being supplied by
electric fields this is a very all
actually slide I think I used it last
time and just to highlight here that at
a time we're talking about maybe a
hundred you know a flux of a hundred per
volume how do we elected fair value but
this number has changed now maybe 2,000
to 10,000 per per volume okay and I just
want to highlight
look at this potential here is a hundred
volts potential different observers in t
of the nucleus of 60p it's a large this
is very this is a lot I mean I don't
know from a chemical perspective is
Allah energy it's a long energy all
right and so again in the previous slide
we use an electron sensor and I'm for it
in ion sensor to detect directly I
really like that
we actually sensing these ions and in
this case we representing our work that
actually uses UPA mission spectroscopy
is a different technique and I I really
like the fact that you have different
techniques collaborating the same it's a
phenomena this is something that we do
here on planet earth frequently it's
very difficult to do this in space
because of limitations or instruments in
because of just massive scale distance
but with with the Rosetta probe we able
to see different instruments collaborate
similar phenomena and but it's not
beautiful data should be that way data
is not beautiful issues NASA sometimes I
sing example for instance where you have
different techniques do can the same
phenomena and the numbers of the kymaro
is totally different it's all different
off by 20% okay but that's that's fine
that's how it should be okay we need to
have more population sampling before you
actually reach conclusions more solidly
right now I think is we're gonna week
end now this is a different work and you
can actually see their citations over
here and I want to highlight I want you
I want you to bring out these this
highlight here in yellow okay
because 67p it was determined not to be
a very active comment okay but when you
were a distance or about 3.6 Salonika
units okay
this comment already show okay a lot of
activity illegal activity
a lot okay and this goes again against
the idea that everything occurs because
of sublimation souffle mentioned usually
thought not to be acted after three it's
a sonica units but here we're talking
about 3.6 okay so it's way beyond the
suit emission level but you still did we
see a lot of like our islands and and
being active around the nucleus so
something else is happening and what I
really suspect is happening is that this
is actually electrical activity I think
I mentioned back 2013 what I really did
not know that much
about comments but I suspected that I
said that if we really want to
differentiate between sublimation in
electrical activity we need to go far
away from the Sun but sublimation is not
in fact we need to remove that variable
and I think this is a particularly
simple way that there has been mostly
removed and we see still see a lot
activity and I think this is a very
important work they just came out this
year what we have here is example I
should work as an example of a limb let
me prove so we actually showing you is
IV characteristics both of you don't
know where it is I mean this I've this
is current and here will be voltage okay
so this is a V current voltage curve and
in this particular example why was done
is the setup row of actually two probes
extending out a particular distance for
each other and a voltage was applied
between these two probes in reference to
the to the reseller instrument and then
the current was measured between the two
probes okay it's go a long way approach
some of you might be familiar with it
and we see here as a function of his
sacred distance basically how far away
the copy was from the Sun and also as a
way as a function of commit committed
distance how far was the actual Rosetta
probe from the comet so in this
particular example we here we only see a
few nano amps of current okay especially
our positive bias what we see is that
this corresponds to the solar wind
because we actually seven thousand goes
away from the actual comment so the
solar wind has shows currents in an
under a branch okay if we move a little
bit closer in terms of discipline Sun in
much much closer to the azure comment
we see that this current actually
increases from five to all the way to 20
plus nano amps if we again move a little
bit closer to point seven five seven s
Omega units and still close still within
you know the coma of 67p we're seeing it
to a much larger increase about a
hundred nano amps and we're very close
to perihelion window we are far away you
know relatively speaking to 35 and 28
kilometers we see current about 15 micro
amps so we see why large increment of
current do all this means is that you
have a lot of electrons and a lot of
positive ions or in this case I guess
only we are measure on the electrons but
you could have to have both in the
vicinity of the nucleus okay today's
there is plenty of energy for these
elections there's plenty of ions
elections in the vicinity this is
obvious is gonna lead to collisions okay
and before I go to talk about chemical
collisions let me also mention the fact
that I've been talking about positive
ions and I'd be also talking about
electrons but there also was this
nanograins called clusters the actually
present so a 67p we have here we have
green energy the electron volts and here
we have sized and I just want I'm going
to concentrate on two types you can see
these columns over here this one for
instance about 50 nano nano meters and
you can actually see that we have this
much energy so we're talking about 10 to
the fourth electron volts so 10,000
maybe just a lot of energy involved I
wish you know involved with these
clusters so if we go a little smaller
size about fine and on the meters we see
that we're talking about a few hundred
it looks on both energy so nanoclusters
I also present now like I mentioned to
you they range from five hundred to ten
thousand of them before fitting the
upper 750 nanometers and from one to two
hundred four finally meters okay now in
in this work they have to settle within
a particular distance I don't recall
exactly baby was between he was not far
from from the nucleus and he please
oriented the probe towards the nucleus
and they begin to measure both positive
and negative ions and what they realize
is that the current find the Quint
detecting the positive ions they only
detect the negative ions so to be right
indicates basically argued that is just
an instrumental error which it could be
by way indicates to me is that I give me
an indication of ways the soft structure
or the electric fields around the
vicinity of 67p you need to be careful
with orientation okay if you take
thinking about the nuclear which is
negative charge I would suspect the
negative charge our electrodes would be
actually moving away readily from the
nucleus of 67p so if such a make sense
to me that you will read them you expect
them to to sense them but the positive
ion the net charge the net motion of
them should be in the early direction
and that's what we see a lot of protons
in protons heavy metal ions Killian you
know alpha particles they're all moving
towards the nucleus and actually they
could lie on the surface and they create
a lot of sputtering right so so
orientation is important and again is
this corroborates the fact or maybe the
fact the occupation that the electrons
come out of the nucleus and the positive
ions should be moving towards the
nucleus now I'm gonna move a little bit
to Lovejoy because I don't have it off
daily with 67p and what I want to
highlight here is the most of these
clusters which actually show allows
creation behavior okay this is also
certain people
the analysis of what this creation
behavior what this particles are it's
not clear most of these are actually see
is iron is in metal ions metal ions we
low ionization potential okay
the easy to remove electrons from and
because you have you have you have this
voltage friend is applied voltage around
the vicinity might be I think it's
dynamic you have you will see these
minerals being removed as you know from
the surface basically lectures are being
stripped out and then you have these
left out of it you're just basically
destroyed the structure the lattice
structure of the minerals electrons
going one direction you have the
positive ions going in the other
direction and what is very interesting
is that because of the size of these
clusters we can attribute that to solar
pressure because they're large
it's definitely but they actually motion
they actually been accelerated towards
solar wind speeds so they go from a few
electron balls or a few below a few I
say a few miles per second velocities to
about 300 to 320 50 minutes I think the
meters per second scuse me meter per
second which is the solar wind speed so
they're being celebrated by electric
fields right the fields are present now
and again I used that as evidence of the
electric strip in a model that I present
the last time and to me that model
actually explains why we see a lot of
lectures which are due to due to to this
model and not to photo in this session
because their meaning that many works
that have been talked about there
indicates that there's more electrons
that should be allowed by photo
intersections well we have electro
stripping here behavior and this has
been observed with the odd on all the
comments as well all right so let me
move to something more interesting as
voltage driven chemical reactions so I
set up the table so I show you for
instance that we have strands separation
we have electric fields which oppressive
which are accelerating electrons and
positive charge
so what do they do well I mean what
happens when you have all this together
well what you're gonna happen is you can
have collisions so let me let me briefly
tell you show you our model of a car
coalition is that you can have well
you're gonna have either gas gas
collisions or you're gonna have gas
surface collisions and that's what we
see so I want to talk about gas surface
collisions and now I'm not gonna talk
about gas gas gas gas collisions will
occur in the coma okay but the gas
surface collisions will come also in the
coma but in dust grains and on the
surface of the comet I think that's more
interesting so in this particular model
what we see is that the rate constant
which is associated it's associated with
a reaction cross section what I mean by
rational cross section I don't know if
you guys can see here but here we have a
cylinder which explains this particle
which is in motion and what we will do
is the moves in this direction provided
that you have all the particles in the
Byzantine well did we react
there would be a reaction so this is
what we call the cross section this is
the cross sectional area okay in the
kinetic the kinetic we basically talked
about the speed or reaction is being
controlled by this cross section now for
the reactions to occur for all for a
bomb to form okay you need to have the
right energy you also have the right
orientation but I guess I want to
highlight is in this in this in this
slide here is that the kinetics also
follow is called the Maxwell Boltzmann
distribution which as shown in this
graphic over here where I have the
number of particles as a function of
kinetic energy and only the particles
which are this end here had enough
kinetic energy for them to collide which
will lead to potentially a chemical bond
okay it didn't have enough energy mister
nothing's gonna happen it just bounced
off okay and you can see there is a
function of temperature if you increase
the temperature you also increase the
amount of particles available for
collision okay and there is a barrier
which we call the activation energy okay
so the this is based on temperature okay
show you here is
like I said the kinetics are based on
temperature this is Katie it refers to K
is the Boltzmann constant and T is
temperature in kelvins so you can see
here you also hear here so it is
connected okay now what do you biggest
I'll say challenges for chemists okay
after chemist husband is I've been the
fact that we use you see Allah chemicals
on our talents and our reactions occur
not only in commerce but also in space
and they cannot really explain it
because the temperature is not high
enough alright just not high enough so
if you only talk about you only look
about the temperature model okay and
what mean by temperature is only given
by say solar radiation you know that UV
light my photos will be enough energy or
I cannot think anything else in space
that can actually provide energy so if
you find way from stars questions well
you don't have a source of energy so
temperature is wrong but you see
chemical reactions so what's happening
here okay and this is what I want to
mention to you guys that you need to
have the right angle if you had the
right angle this no reaction well
there's a problem here okay but okay but
this can be solved because I just show
you that we have a lot of super thermal
electrons so the energy of required for
collisions to occur is actually be
giving out or provided or granted I see
well call it by the electric fields okay
which is due to stress separation so
electric fields give the kinetic energy
necessary food for ions in elections to
react and they accelerate obviously both
positive and negative particles we also
have surfaces okay in comments silicates
metallic organic surfaces that are
allowed there which provide or can
catalyze these reactions okay
and this is not temperature dependent
definitely that temperature dependence
so forget about temperature forget about
the fact that you in a in a cold area of
space because
have four actions I suppose you have
energy fields okay so we still apply
coalition theory because the particles
have kinetic energy but is given by
electric fields not solar radiation okay
so this this allows us to do chemistry
and not to worry about temperature I
think that's a very powerful situation
and I'm gonna end up my talk by talking
about a one particular type of reaction
the early rate right of the reaction
this is a gas surface reaction I will
talk about two cases and I just just to
remind you that we have particles those
particles in the in the comma c 7p
all different sizes so the reactions can
occur definite can occur over there I
say also current surface all right so
conditions necessary for for this
particular reaction which we talked
about the formation of deuterium
deuterium is a compound basically water
it's called but it just have one of the
hydrogen actually has a neutron so it's
a behavior we have again for the
previous work we have water ions okay
ice elevated between 120 to 800 electron
volts and we also have what's called
coal oil between 10 and 50 electron
volts so these are available potentially
a reservoir higher audio Tyrian this is
not collaborated this is just a
supposition okay I really it's not
really clear that the minerals on comet
67p are reaching to turn okay but this
work was done in the lab okay but we do
have know for instance this on the
theory which in solid organic matter is
being shown to be available in comments
but not see to 7p but you only need you
need to have these requirements which
potential available in common cmp to
show that that squeezed because come see
design p has a ratio corresponding to
this is a deuterium to hydrogen ratio
5.3 plus or minus 0.7 10 to the minus 4
okay this is extracted from deuterium
how to call this outgassing versus water
outgassing
but you also say due to information
versus white information because it's
not clear if these two species actually
are gassing or being formed in situ so
you take water you take the Tyrian and
you get a comparison if you want to look
at it in terms of something that makes
more sense we talked about liters per
second or being a being formed deuterium
about 12 liters per second versus 17
point seven thousand seventeen percent
thousand liters per second water that's
being formed per second okay these
numbers are being instructed on based on
spectroscopic data now in this
particular model and then we bore you
here little bit with chemistry here but
it's actually simple we have a surface
which is reaching the Tyrian you can see
the duty right here
okay so that represents this grain that
I talked to you about and if you have
water ions put the rice with the correct
energy then it will form a complex shown
over here okay and these complex which
is the intermediate species then
separates into a deal
Tirion iron and another pageant nearly
charged iron here okay now this is
something I already mentioned
now this can happen okay so it shouldn't
happen in the lab it should happen in a
lab okay and this is the the graph or
the image to prevent the graph we have
excess energy this is how much energy is
being bounced off from the from the
nucleus and here what I have is the
incident energy of the incoming ion so
let me see what it is you have a surface
which is made up Latin which has been
those with the Tyrians they have a
surface
we allow deuterium in here I have a gun
that projects water islands I'm heating
the surface
what irons also stop happening all the
different boiled tiles go to a mass
spectrometer so I know what they are and
so here is a graph that shows different
species the form
okay all the other species of form and
the one that we're actually looking at
what the interested in would be the one
in red which is so where we here so all
the species you feel actually formed in
the lab ok and so you make the
assumption that okay if the conditions
are giving in the lab if you look at the
comment the comment also has similar
condition it can happen doesn't mean
they're happening it can happen
all right but I like this approach even
though I you see that is a limitation
here but I like it because because is
lab work they can be repeated okay it
can be repeated now I'm almost at the
end here on my talk this is another
example this is for molecular oxygen it
follows a similar idea you have a
surface here but this surface now is
reaching oxygen
now that we know right we know silicates
we have hydroxy groups on a surface
we are also disallow oxides so that we
know is correct for this event P for
allowing on the comments and so we have
incoming water iron again interacts okay
with the surface its tracts the oxygen
okay eventually you get a subsequent
reaction that gives you molecular oxygen
okay this is a little more difficult for
me to understand okay but it can happen
all right
and again what I really like about this
is that the conditions are there
incoming citizen P is happening in the
lab okay we know that the water the
the water cations have enough energy
they did because did you know given by
the electric field so this can't happen
right this can definitely happen and
here's the evidence shown again this is
the energy of the incoming particles
they're being detected by mass
spectrometer here is a the amount of
energy would you put in the park of
hitting the surface again the surf in
this case is planning we oxygen so as
you can see in the lab this is idealized
this is not how I was expecting it is
happening in space but this is idolized
but it's a good start okay this is a
good start
and we actually see molecular oxygen
which is in black actually being formed
okay you can see there's a linear
connection between a the amount energy
that the incoming ion will have and the
energy that we it will come out okay so
it's a very interesting situation but
there are limitations for this model
okay so I just show you okay you know
you can have reactions in there the
collisions are there but there's
something that is there is contradicting
here so this is this is a piece
paragraph from the author's book
actually see here for instance he says
the whining ions in the extended
commissariat towards the nucleus here we
know that okay in the cross it's
actually dehydrated so where the water
molecules coming from so I really don't
understand that part okay because okay I
mean we are you know we are trying to
figure out what's happening but I think
it's best to start explaining where the
water is coming from first okay and then
once you understand what the water is
coming from okay you can say yeah we
have plenty of them and then we can
actually you know say that they are
actually hitting the surface or hitting
the surface of the nucleus or here the
surface of the different dust grains and
these reactions are occurring so there
are limitations to this model I would
suspect that the water molecules for
this to be explained and they can do it
in the many labs like actually do this
and I hope that they can go forward and
do it I do not have the
to do it myself I don't have high vacuum
equipment to do it
and I'm gonna end up by give you an
illustration or not only the model but
she's scientific limitations okay so
there's this work done on comment on
Lovejoy this using infrared spectroscopy
okay and look and let me show you this
so here's Lovejoy okay he is preparing
helium and prepare helium that the
experiment was done using radio waves
okay
post perihelion the experiment phosphor
helium was done using infrared
spectroscopy two very different
techniques okay
and so I mean you know it's difficult
for me to look at this data because I
have here production rates for deuterium
tertiary for water and they are looking
at the ratio over here and this is how
much it is versus the vienna standard
mean ocean water basically if you look
at the ocean on earth this is the ratio
they used you will see between deuterium
to water point in iron okay now if we
look at infrared data I see different
portion rates but let me have a
concentrate only on the vienna standard
mean ocean water to do Tyrael to water
ratio very different so point a 91.9 for
the authors went on and talked about
this you know they tell us whole
publication about this now these guys
are actually very honest and they
explain that how can we do this I mean
this is this is one technique to me
these apples and these oranges if you
want to do a comparison paper a helium
possibly Helio we need to we need to
fill the gaps over here we don't and the
authenticity was happening when we
allowed data that we see for either
astronomy cosmology for you
there's not enough at least from my
perspective as a training so the legal
chemist so I'm training I'm looking at
data and I need to have differing
instruments looking at the same thing
they agree okay
now I'm I'm satisfied but I don't see
that much happening in these fields
besides the Rosetta and when I look at
Rosetta I mean I read that maybe like 50
papers they all concentrate on the own
little field small little feel and so I
think that's the that's the biggest
problem that we see is that we and this
one for shown in cosmology we just don't
have enough there's not enough data out
there for us to begin to see the bigger
picture and so just to show you okay
look at the spread or the th water ratio
when you look at cichlid of all the
different reports this how it looks like
okay it's quite they say to be isn't
complete we need we need more data we
need more simple population to actually
come up with a conclusion so to finish
up take-home take-home points here like
to feel the pressing that we seen to
commence a Steven P these are used to
provide kinetic energy for irons any
lectures and I could give you an example
of gas surface reaction and the previous
talk I talked about actually plasma
reactions the corona discharge which
again can be occur because you have
electric fields and I'm just going to
end out here saying the crew meteorology
instrumentation is lacking it's nice
efficient we don't have enough well I
thank you for your attention this all I
have to say today
[Applause]
[Music]
you
