welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info today we continue our report on the
first scientific papers on the Rosetta
mission to comet 67p as noted in the
previous episode comet scientists and
the science media continue to hold to
the traditional story of comets one
basis for the scientists purported
confidence is the discovery of evidence
for water production and cometary comas
however the electric comet Theory offers
an alternative explanation that may
better fit the available evidence let us
briefly look back to July in August of
2014 when the Rosetta team reported the
first of many unexpected discoveries the
average surface temperature of the comet
was about minus 90 degrees Fahrenheit a
surprising relatively warm reading as
noted on the Paris observatories website
these temperature measurements have been
compared to temperatures of a
theoretical model of a comet consisting
mainly of water ice the temperature
measured on comet 67p ECG turns out to
be 20 to 30 Kelvin higher than the
temperature expected for an icy body in
August the team was also surprised to
learn that the comet whose surface
revealed no water ice appeared to be
producing a relatively large amount of
water in its coma while still a vast
distance from the Sun they were then
surprised to learn that the most
energetic Jets originated at the Comets
neck which is frequently in shadow and
is the coldest region on the nucleus
which means it should be the least
active region
if solar warming is the cause of the
Jets in October scientists at the
University of Bern reported still
another surprise the comet was producing
an amazing abundance of rich molecules
much too far from the Sun to explain as
sublimation from solar heating neither
these discoveries nor the desiccated
appearance of 67p s rocky terrain remain
mysterious if the Comets production of
water molecules is an electrochemical
process as the electric comet Theory has
always maintained
we know that in recent years several
scientific papers have provided evidence
for the production of water in minerals
due to interaction with the solar wind
while Thornhill explains why the
findings of the Rosetta mission have
only strengthened the case for the
electoral chemical production of a
comet's water it's reported that both
atomic hydrogen and oxygen have been
detected close to the nucleus and vary
with time probably stemming from
electron impact dissociation of venting
water vapour but this is evidence in
support of an important prediction of
the electric comet model the cathode
discharge from the comet energetically
strips atoms from surface minerals in
fact we can expect anomalous abundances
of neutral atoms and negative ions close
to the comet nucleus compared to the
more complex molecules like water and
carbon dioxide that are supposed to be
driving the Jets also the dust to guest
ratio is higher than generally accepted
for comets this too fits with the idea
that the dust is being electrically
sputtered from the surface and doesn't
need to be exclusively driven off by gas
less than 1% of the 67p nucleus surface
is needed to explain the water gas
production rates if water ice were
located on the surface however no ice
rich patches are observed indicating a
generally dehydrated nature for the
surface currently illuminated by the Sun
this is supported by a more recent
report in nature that comet dust grains
collected by Rosetta shattered on a
target plate showing that they contained
no water ice so it suggested that the de
surface dust grains have been drying out
since the last perihelion passage and
when the Comets activity increases in
coming months that surface layer will be
blown away and the dust is expected to
become more ice rich I don't think so
the Comets activity is an electrical
discharge phenomenon that will become
increasingly evident as the comet speeds
up towards the Sun the gas
concentrations don't always vary as the
sunlight falling on the comet changes
this is taken in ad hoc fashion as
evidence that they may be due to
heterogeneous concentrations of
different Isis
however cathode sputtering of charged
particles from the comet's surface
doesn't rely on sunlight and gives rise
to complex electrochemistry that varies
with the minerals at the focus of the
arc and being a fragment of a planet
surface we should expect heterogeneity
of these minerals it doesn't require
more ad hoc additions to theory of early
transport of comet s holes in the solar
system and incredible collisions without
fragmentation comet 67p doesn't look
like a body formed by collisions the
microwave instrument on the Rosetta
orbiter Miro acquired maps of the sub
surface temperature of Comet 67p and
spectra of water vapour to researchers
surprise the highest water densities are
often observed above shadowed neck
regions where the nucleus surface and
subsurface temperatures are low on the
other hand low water densities are
measured above some illuminated regions
on the body and on the head supporting
the electric discharge model much better
than solar heating
discordant measures of deuterium to
hydrogen ratios and isotopic abundances
of solar system bodies denied the story
of the formation of the earth and its
anomalous abundance of water it's
further evidence against the four and a
half billion year long myth of earth's
history instead it supports a blended
solar family are very different planets
each with their own unique history in
our electric universe the rosetta
mission has not begun to explore our
origins finally it's important to
understand the origin of modern comet
theory it's centuries-old in the general
history of nature and the theory of the
heavens
17:55 Immanuel Kant laid out the nebula
hypothesis in which he deduced that the
solar system formed from a large cloud
of gas a nebula he thus attempted to
explain the order of the solar system
seen previously by Newton as being in
opposed from the beginning by God this
is the unscientific dogma behind our
story of comets the big bang story is
also a fanciful rehash of Genesis as
Arthur Koestler wrote the cosmology of a
given age is not the result of a uni
linear scientific development but rather
the most striking imaginative symbol of
its mentality the projection of its
conflict prejudices and specific ways of
doublethink
on to the graceful sky in stark contrast
the electric universe is founded
empirically on forensic investigations
into mankind's entire eyewitness history
of comets which shows finally that the
archetype of all comets was gigantic
planet size and identified globally as
the planet Venus it was the celestial
fire-breathing doomsday dragon with the
planetary ball in its clutches this
worldwide evidence destroys it a stroke
the nebula and Newtonian four-and-a-half
billion year old clockwork story of the
solar system it shows that comets can be
any size and are essentially planetary
matter and according to the ancient myth
or histories these errant planets hurled
Thunderbolts of the Gods to avoid
collisions their cometary glow discharge
faded as they settled into peaceful
orbits Venus's dark current cometary
tail still stretches to tickle the earth
at inferior conjunction and Venus now
has the most circular orbit of any
planet in the solar system born in a
cosmic Thunderbolt during a recent
chaotic episode between the planets
Comet 67p my only television and the
electrical sculpting of that berth the
odd shape sharp features and cratering
are hallmarks of such an origin
hopefully comet 67p will be the rosetta
stone that opens up the real history of
the solar system
for continuous updates on space news
from the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
