welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info scientists with the European Space
Agency's Rosetta mission are writing a
new chapter in the history of comet
science however institutional Sciences
understanding of comets is less certain
today than ever before
recently the Rosetta team published
their first scientific papers following
their successful landing on the comet
67p yet the scientific summaries have
raised far more questions than answers
while news media around the world have
lauded the missions remarkable human
achievement it must be noted that the
feat was at best a partial success the
primary purpose of the mission was to
penetrate the comet's nucleus and gather
a large sample of material however on
landing the probe encountered a terrain
nothing like the icy snowy surface it
had been designed to withstand after
bouncing into the shade of one of the
Comets rocky cliffs the team ultimately
resorted to using a mechanical hammer to
attempt to acquire a sample for testing
according to the ESA team the hammer was
quote unable to make more than a few
millimeters of progress even at the
highest power level of the hammer motor
in the e essays words the hammer was
bested by quote mechanically strong ice
but what ice is a ESA referring to to
the astonishment of mainstream
scientists he complexly layered pitted
boulders strewn desiccated terrain of
67p has not revealed the abundant water
ice that the standard model requires
indeed according to a recent nature
report scientists found that 67 piece
dust grains shattered on a target plate
revealing they contained no water ice in
the wake of this and other surprising
revelations it is useful to look back at
the past predictions of the standard
comet theory consider the image on your
screen on your left is an illustration
prior to the 1986 mission to the comet
Halle
in the center is a ESA teams rendition
of the commentary terrain they expected
to encounter at 67p on the right is an
actual image of 67 piece nucleus yet
today the assumptions behind the drawing
on the left
remain unchanged in any meaningful way
institutional science still insists that
comets are primordial aggregates of ices
and dust the leftovers of the early
solar system with the cooperation of
science media it would appear that the
theory is unfalsifiable however
unbeknownst to most in the general
public an alternative theory of comets
does exist for decades the electric
universe theory as developed by
physicist wal Thornhill has made the
seemingly outrageous claim that comets
asteroids and meteors were electrically
machined from planets in relatively
recent epic of planetary instability
doom like ripples fields of boulders in
rubble craters pits cliffs rocky spires
a complexly layered terrain and the
absence of water ice are all consistent
with the electric universe theory of
comets and comet origins here is wal
thornhill with our first report on the
initial papers from the Rosetta team the
first papers on comet
churyumov-gerasimenko or comet 67p were
published by the rosetta team last week
once again expectations of a boring lump
of ice and dust were not met instead
there were ever more surprises a natural
result of an incorrect theory of comets
in science magazine under the headline
comet close-up reveals a world of
surprises diverse landscape of 67p
suggests an unexpectedly complicated
origin we find the usual mantra many of
the intriguing landforms the main
science camera Osiris has found testify
to the power of the Sun which heats up
67p during part of every orbit igniting
Jets of gas
dust that resculpt the surface of the
comet other discoveries could be
primordial dating from the comet's
formation more than four-and-a-half
billion years ago
however Nicholas Thomas and Osiris
co-investigator and an experimental
physicist at the University of Bern
confesses the Sun alone can't have
created all the layers topography and
chemical diversity that scientists see I
find it hard to believe at the present
time that 67p was originally homogeneous
you've got to produce all of these
diverse morphologies on the surface with
that one energy source
I find this tough of course it's tough
because years or decades of work that
was based on generally accepted false
assumptions must be abandoned the lead
article in the special section of
science magazine reporting on the
Rosetta mission opens with comets are
the best sample of primitive solar
nebula material presently available to
us dating back 4.5 7 billion years to
the origin of our planetary system this
bold statement is not fact but fiction
no one was there as witness or
timekeeper it hasn't been shown that
nebulae around some of the stars our
planet forming accretion discs it's
going too far to argue the complexity of
the Comets suggest that the comet
forming regions of the early solar
system were more turbulent and
chemically diverse than theorists have
thought pushing the anomalies so far
into the past that anything is possible
doesn't advance science and some of the
features like layering the dune like
ripples and boulders with wind tails
show the gaping hole in the accretion
story of comets these are planetary
processes now that the comet 67p and
most comets show little sign of the ice
is required to fuel jets of gas to
sculpt their surfaces why cling to the
story about comets being primordial when
all the evidence is plainly against such
an idea scientists need to be conscious
that we are a tribal species and as such
we utterly disdain things that challenge
our worldview and after centuries of
repetition the story of the birth of the
solar system has fixated our worldview
to the extent that
covers of stars forming along growing
filaments in a decidedly
non-gravitational manner and thousands
of planetary systems that don't conform
to our worldview have had no effect on
that story cosmology is a belief system
sustained by confirmatory bias no
alternative to the old primordial
gravitational accretion model of the
solar system is believed possible
meanwhile comet 67p is reported to show
rocky seeming terrain which refers to
the low density of the comet far less
than rocks on earth perhaps the comet is
a polystyrene model rocky seeming is an
expression that denies the evidence of
our eyes and exposes our fundamental
ignorance of mass and gravity no more
serious accusation can be leveled at
theoretical physicists modern science
has no solid foundation for our
worldview our gravitational cosmology I
predict that will be comet 67p s
greatest lesson if we have the wisdom
and courage to discard our tribal myths
let me be clear
mass is a property of matter the mass of
the comet is not equivalent to the
amount of matter in the comet mass is a
measure of electromagnetic energy stored
in matter according to the best known
equation in physics the equals MC
squared so comet 67p can be composed of
rocky minerals while exhibiting low mass
and a density like cork or wood low mass
implies that the rocky comet is under
low electrical and gravitational stress
gravitational stress electrically
distorts the atoms within a body by
pulling the heavy nucleus towards the
center of mass as a small body far from
any planet and having electrons stripped
from its surface in the solar discharge
Comet 67p is under very low internal
stress which is reflected in its low
mass it doesn't demand it be a fluffy
object with the porosity of 70 to 80
percent and if there's any argument
about the Jets issuing from Comet 67p
being electrical it's only necessary to
look at the way nearby elementary jets
are alive
and draw together this is natural for
coronal discharge as issuing vertically
from a surface and the subsequent
attractive force between parallel
currents according to amperes law the
effect is seen clearly in images of the
Sun's corona it is not a natural
formation for gas under pressure
expanding through random vents into a
vacuum
for continuous updates on space news
from the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
