[Music]
[Music]
he's expert at image acquisition and
analysis we've talked a lot about common
sense and common sense is essential to
having keeping our feet on the ground
and forming cogent understandings of the
world that we live in but we know also
that our senses are somewhat limited
there's only so much that we can see
with the eyes that we've grown in our
bodies that we can touch with our hands
and our are our five senses so science
when it's properly functioning and
serving common sense extends those
senses into the realms beyond our
ability to perceive - in that sense make
visible that which is there but is
invisible to our common senses and that
is part of the expertise of our next
speaker an important part of what p.m.
re ro Battaglia is is accomplished at in
1996 he was responsible for developing
breaking essentially the world record
form in a magnetic resonance imager II
developing and essentially doubling the
power of magnetic resonance with an 8
Tesla MRI and I'm is going to share with
us some of what he sees to add to our
growing sense of the electric universe
welcome professor Pierre Marie
Robitaille
[Applause]
well thank you I would like to begin by
thanking Dave Talbot for inviting me
here and for providing scientists from
different viewpoints the opportunity to
address the scientific community it is a
privilege to be here today I'll be
speaking about the microwave background
and as Steve tried to explain to you
when you look at the microwave
background if you're located on the
earth you have signal from the earth
itself the emissions of the oceans water
around the earth and then you also have
galactic emissions that are reaching the
earth you have signals beyond the galaxy
perhaps that that we get to see as well
so there are many signals that are
coming when you're at the earth but when
you're at l2 the earth of course cannot
hit the satellites that are at l2
therefore you will not get a monopole at
l2 and the only data if you want to call
it data that you get at all - will be
dominated by the galaxy before I begin
to speak because I'm I'm in the College
of Medicine I did want to speak just
briefly about anchoring now in medicine
what is anchoring anchoring is occurs
when a patient comes to the hospital and
if and he's gravely ill and we'll assume
that he's gravely ill and what happens
is a physician sees him and he decides
on the diagnosis but the diagnosis is
incorrect the next physician comes in
sees them and doesn't do his own
physical and follows the diagnosis of
the first physician
so eventually unfortunately our patient
dies the doctors get sued they lose
their license and of course the
attorneys get to make lots of money
but in what happens in physics when we
anchor well that's a different problem
because we're not in a position that
somebody's going to lose their life over
it at least we hope not
but when physics makes an error
it's much harder to rectify because you
can anchor and it takes tremendous
incentive to go back and recheck the
assumptions so relative to the microwave
background to recheck the assumptions
you actually have to go all the way back
to 1860 and deal with kirchoff's law of
thermal emission now I will talk about
that law on Sunday not now because it it
in of itself is actually the most
important talk I will give even though
this one's on the background and the
other one is on the Sun also because I'm
in the College of Medicine it's you know
I have to figure out how this works I'd
like to dedicate this work to two
physicians now the first is my father he
just retired from medicine after more
than 50 years I think 55 years as a
physician he was a family practitioner
he delivered over 800 babies in his life
he also helped the Saiga Mach Indians in
Northern Ontario and he lowered the
infant mortality rate for the Saiga Mach
First Nations both for the mothers and
their babies he was one of the first
Caucasian men to be named as an honorary
Indian chief in North America the next
whoops that's the mistake that we make
okay I'll get it here the next person
that I'd like to dedicate the talk to is
dr. Ignaz Semmelweis now I dedicate it
to him as well because he's got a lesson
for us right so in ninth in 1847 he
advocated the physicians wash their
hands with chlorinated lime solutions to
reduce the incidence of mortality from
child bed fever and a physician saw this
as an insult because they felt that you
know they were already pretty clean even
though they were going for the necropsy
lab to delivering women and they were
killing these mothers and he he actually
documented when he got the doctors to
wash their hands that the mortality
rates would drop so the physicians
rather than just listen to him and keep
washing their hands decided that he had
to be incorrect
his papers and ideas were largely
rejected there were only a few people of
the European medical community that
recognized the importance of what he was
saying he's actually I think the father
of hygienic methods and he unfortunately
died in an insane asylum
he was only 47 now I've published
extensively on the microwave background
and I list the papers here some of the
important ones relative to the stalks of
Steve and I are W map or radiological
analysis of course the papers on the
earth contribution the paper on water
the the bottom one that's listed there
then you also have this all will affect
global warming whether you believe in
global warming don't believe in global
warming for us to understand how the
oceans are actually emitting is an
important problem and then there's
another paper on Kobe where I did a full
analysis of Kobe and one on plank
now dr. Reuben ski who's the editor of
progress in physics has been very kind
to me he's taken many many papers and
enabled me to publish my work in what I
consider a very new journal and of
course people say well Pierre why do you
publish an in-progress in physics and
that's because it's a proper vehicle for
what I'm dealing with now now I also
want to point out that there's some
parallels between MRI and the microwave
background studies so an MRI scientist
is actually well suited to go through
this stuff because what we do are almost
similar there's only the sample that
changes in magnetic resonance imaging
it's fundamentally a thermal method we
have t1 relaxation it's called the
thermal relaxation constant that was
named so by Felix Bloch most people have
forgotten that name their frequency of
observation is from VHF to UHF
but the a Tesla that I built and new
scanners are now at point four gigahertz
so almost in the microwave their
detection methods that we use are RF
antennas and they're coupled to pre
amplifiers and radiometers we display
our results in spectral images now if
you look at the microwave background
again you have a thermal problem you
have a maximum emission at 160 gigahertz
of course
Penzias and Wilson were at 4 gigahertz
and their first experiments that's only
we were we are now at point 4 in
magnetic resonance the detection methods
are very similar at low frequency we
have in microwave experiments we have RF
antenna coupled to preamplifiers again
and radiometers and we display our
results in spectra or images so just
generally what are the requirements for
having an image well there's basically
two requirements through the two key
requirements is you have to have
resolution and you also have to have
signal-to-noise and it takes signal to
noise to make contrast it also takes
signal to noise to get resolution if an
image is noisy how can you tell if it
contains any information and this is
critical to anybody who believes that
the microwave background anisotropy maps
can be real for them to be real they
have to be reproducible and none of
these maps are ever reproducible so they
pool the data and then the their
differences are from averages - a year
or in Planck now they're trying to pool
a bunch of data so you can't take
averages you have to look when you have
a low signal-to-noise image as you do in
medicine when we do functional imaging
for instance we're gonna have quite low
signal-to-noise sometimes in the cat 5
you might have low signal to noise and
how can we tell that the signal is real
because it has to be reproducible so if
you ever encountering somebody who's
telling you the anisotropy maps are real
just ask him for reproducibility he will
never be able to deliver it because the
galaxy is too variable
now I want to show you an image that was
done at the time that I did the a Tesla
this is an image it's a clinical image
from a human head is a sagittal sagittal
slice and this is done with a
conventional scanner it was a good
scanner the image looks really bad and
it's because I'm pushing the scanner
right to its limit
so I'm taking a very thin slice very
little bit of the tissue and the matrix
size is a 512 by 512 ya with only a two
millimeter slice so when I do that
there's still a little signal you can't
get contrast anymore did you remember I
told you to take signal to get contrast
so this is a 512 by 512 and now here's
an image from a Tesla and this is still
a world-record today even though it was
done for the year 2000 this was an image
of 2000 points by 2000 and resolution
same data same slice thickness a similar
nutation angle everything is very
comparable between these two images but
the difference is of course I have more
signal because I have an 8 Tesla scanner
so this remains as I said a world record
and resolution here's an expanded view
of that so now what are the central
issue is relative to understanding the
microwave background well I think there
are several the first is the early
measurements did we have a right to
assign the signal Penzias and Wilson to
the universe could water have produced
this signal and where is the water
signal from the earth if if this if the
microwave background signal really
belongs to the universe where is the
earth signal does that the 3 Kelvin
temperature really have a real value or
is the temperature really only apparent
now this will be answered primarily in
my talk on Sunday on kirchoff's law can
we really see beyond the foreground of
the galaxy into the universe and is
there any real cosmological information
in the anisotropy Maps the data
processing produced the monopole Steve
touched on the multi
you touched on this as mankind truly
sampled the first trillionth of a
trillionth of a trillionth now of a
second after the Big Bang so we'll begin
just by a quick review of the Penzias
and Wilson experiment and when they
completed their experiment they reported
immediately that they had a 3.5 Kelvin
signal that was unexpected and there was
a this excessive signal was isotropic
unpolarized and free from seasonal
variations now if you look at the way
the horn worked
you had a contamination from the horn
the noise from the horn was only point 9
Kelvin but they had the assigned 2.7 2.3
Kelvin to an atmospheric contamination
so the total signal that came in was six
point seven now of course they could
rotate this horn and that's how they
determined the amount of signal that's
coming from the atmosphere they could
just rotate the horn and as they rotated
the horn they can compensate for this
atmospheric signal but what they don't
compensate for is an oceanic signal
that's pumping photons into the
atmosphere they also say that this 2.3
kelvin signal was due to absorption by
oxygen in the atmosphere I think it had
nothing to do with it nowhere in the
Penzias and Wilson papers of 1965 can
one find any discussion of water and
where it might be expected to emit now
of course they immediately say that a
possible explanation is a sign is done
by these cosmologists now what happens
in Astrophysical Journal actually is
that this interpretation by Daiki
peoples and roll's and Wilkinson
actually precede the dependence in
Wilson publication so since when in
science do we publish the finding after
the interpretation you publish the
finding first then you publish the
interpretation so in the interpretation
they say well could the universe be
filled with microwave energy
that behaves as a blackbody that gives
us this blackbody signal the answer of
course is no the assignment of a three
points up five Kelvin temperature
constitutes a violation of the laws of
thermal emission and I will talk about
that on Sunday because that in itself is
quite detailed to explain but valid
temperatures require a known solid no
net conduction or convection or if you
don't have a known solid you must be in
thermal equilibrium with a rigid
perfectly absorbing enclosure otherwise
the temperature obtained may or may not
be accurate
so the universe is not in thermal
equilibrium with an enclosure okay and
especially if it's expanding it had no
chance of ever becoming in thermal
equilibrium a source which is not at
three Kelvin can produce a signal if it
sustains in addition to emission other
means of contending with internal heat
namely conduction and convection and
this is by the way the reason that Max
Planck said you cannot take a
temperature of the Sun using thermal
emission a source which is not at three
Kelvin can produce a 3 Kelvin signal if
it has an unexpected distribution of
energy within its degrees of freedom as
a result can water at 300 Kelvin produce
a signal with an apparent temperature of
3 Kelvin so I thought we'd start by just
looking assessing the situation here
we're sitting on the earth I think
there's quite a bit of water around us
actually this famous poem that many of
us learnt in grade school The Rime of
the Ancient Mariner reminds us water
water everywhere
water has often complicated microwave
background experiments so in their own
literature when you read their papers
you see that they're always having
trouble with water when they're doing
the experiments near the earth but they
dismiss all this for instance when dr.
Smith
was testing a Radiometer at Berkeley he
actually took the radiometer outside in
the parking lot and there was a cloud
that went overhead and he saw that he
got a signal from the cloud so he knew
his radiometer was working of course he
was sampling water at the time then rain
or Weiss
he noticed that whenever you're doing
microwave background experiments it's
very simple to do when there's oceans or
lakes nearby John Mather he commented in
his book that the people working in the
Atlantic Ocean had a very difficult time
getting microwave background
measurements done because the oceanic
Brut signals can the oceanic patterns
can produce signals that are very
similar to cosmic fluctuations and dr.
woody noticed that he sent up a balloon
and on the ground and during the ascent
they protected the antenna from
condensation and then they had a small
mirror to allow them to make sure that
there was no condensation inside their
horn well if condensation doesn't matter
why do you care right now we know that
condensation matters because dr. smut
when he went to Lima Peru with an
experiment and when he came down with
the plane he got condensation as
radiometers and they didn't work so what
did he do he took him apart
he took out all the water he dried him
up put him back together and all of a
sudden it worked
here's one from John Mather the effect
of air conduct condensing into the
antennas were seen when the second
window was open the valve which controls
the gas flow should have been rotated so
that all the gas has forced out through
the cone and the horn when the situation
was corrected emissions from the horn
were reduced and the cold helium has
cooled the surfaces on which the air had
condensed and the signal returned to
normal so he's telling you when I have
water there my signal was too high
now of course as Steve pointed out this
slide from one of my papers I am just
showing the structure of water and to
remind everybody that there's a there's
a hydrogen bond here and this is not at
all like a hydroxyl bond the energy of
this bond is about a hundred times the
energy of that one the force constant
the force constant in this bond that is
characterizing this bond if we look at
it as a simple harmonic oscillator the
force constant here is a hundred times
stronger than that one and that's a
great concern so if you look at it if
you look at the dot water dimer which we
know exists in that atmosphere now I'm
just taking the water dimer as an
example the water dimer you can find it
also in in in condensed water in in
liquid water if you look at the
structure of liquid water you'll see
dimers inside of it and if you compare
that if you look at this whoops I'm
sorry I did a boo-boo I will get there
so if you look on axis here in the dimer
these are these are this is a linear
these two these three atoms are all
arranged linearly there is libation
around this one but generally you can
assume that they're linear and if you do
that you can easily show that the energy
in system 1 divided by the energy in
system 2 will just be equal to the
ratios of their force constants now the
energy is related to their temperature
well since these force constants are
different by a factor of a hundred then
the emission that you'll get will be
different by a factor of 100 so instead
of getting 300k emission you get 3
Kelvin emission so remember if water is
a powerful absorber of microwaves then
by Stewarts law it's also a powerful
emitter now a little brief note on the
Coby satellite which Steve also covered
so the ferris horn was designed to
operate over a phenomenal range actually
from 30 to 3,000 gigahertz but no
microwave horn has ever claimed to cover
such a frequency range even 25 years
later the claim is unsupported by vast
knowledge of practical microwave antenna
design on earth it's an engineering
impossibility the COBE satellite as
Steve mentioned is positioned at an
altitude of 950 kilometers but the
shield the satellite itself or the horn
within the satellite which is located
here is is this shield it has nothing to
do with microwaves this is the shield
for thermal photons not microwaves
if it was a shield for microwaves it
should be properly shielded so here I
will for instance in this case what are
you having you're having photons coming
down from the earth below it and they're
coming up and they're hitting the shield
and they're diffracting against it and
they come to the top of the door and
they diffract right into this horn
notice that the horn the fierce horn has
a very smooth wall so because it has a
smooth wall and because it's broadband
it cannot be shielded for diffraction so
so it has no corrugated surface to
prevent diffraction so a horn a
narrowband horn in microwave that you
would use to prevent diffraction would
to have walls that look something like
this so now you see this corrugation and
these corrugations that are put in horns
they're very frequency specific that's
why these are narrowband horns you never
would make such a horn for a broadband
signal so unlike the fierce horn on Kobe
which is broad banded corrugated horns
are always narrow banded the geometry of
the corrugation is carefully calculated
to be effective over a very narrow
frequency range so there's no way that
Kobe satellite could have prevented
diffraction actually Wilkinson himself
who was a member of the Kobe team and
for which the W map satellite is named
after his death was worried that there
was diffraction in the
we data so one of the old their own key
members was worried about it
so the COBE satellite of course is
located just above a powerful source of
microwave emissions the oceans of the
earth clear signs of diffractions
diffraction exist in the kobe ferrous
data the data is too high at low
frequencies too low at high
so the Penzias and Wilson signal is very
likely to be produced by the earth now
we'll go through W map now I cover W map
and there's a lot of lessons in W map
which actually applies to all their
methodologies in trying to create a nice
atre P maps now as I mentioned w map is
sitting far out in space this is a
picture of the of the satellite and it's
it's sitting over here at l2 so in this
position well away from the earth
there's no way W map is getting a
monopole signal from the earth and W map
never saw a monopole signal it's unable
to by design but Planck should have been
able to see it but it because planck has
the capability capability to see an
absolute signal but they never reported
a monopole signal from l2 with the
planck satellite in fact for planck
analysis they use kobe ferris monopole
data in their analysis and that data of
course is more than is over 25 years old
now or nearly 25 years old they also are
worried that they have a lot of noise on
their lf-i and my problem is that
remember that this is a high tech device
now that we've got 25 years of high
technology we have a lot of noise coming
into the LF I but remember that Penzias
and Wilson also almost had no noise they
only had point 9 Kelvin attributed to
the instrument now SC showed here are
the five map here are five maps from W
map in each of the frequency
and of course we see this enormous
signal from from the galaxy okay
unfortunately you can't get around this
this signal is actually much much bigger
than this these are cleaned images where
they've already processed the data to
get rid of galactic signal out here
because it was so high the galactic
center this is a quote from their papers
the galactic center is a thousand times
brighter than fluctuations in the
microwave background and if you take if
you take the statement as real it's
impossible absolutely impossible to
remove the galactic foreground and
quantify any underlying signal so here's
an example from NMR so it's a
cosmologists really think that they can
do that they can come and help us in
medicine so here's an example where I
take a water signal an NMR signals out
so of course water is 110 molar so I'm
going to take a sample I'm going to make
a sample of water and I'm going to put a
little bit of a compound in it just
point one molar of this compound well
when I take the spectrum which is a in
here all you see is the water line okay
this is just water I can blow it up and
when I blow it up a factor of a hundred
I now see some resonances from this
compound now the resonances are not
below the water peak they're next to it
but for the microwave background they
are under the water peak the same it's
not water that they're looking at at l2
but it's a similar situation they're
sitting over here under a strong strong
microwave signal they got a little tiny
signal they have probably similar line
shapes they don't know what the line
shapes are it's absolutely impossible
for them to resolve these two signals
it's a physical impossibility so the
problem for the microwave background
studies is that the signal of interest
is exactly at the same
frequency as a contaminated galactic
signal in every single channel so under
these circumstances the Galactic
contamination of any magnitude cannot be
properly addressed how does one
distinguish the Galactic contamination
from a constitution made by a primordial
source so now you've got this this
enormous signal and you have the
primordial source I'm sorry and you have
now the primordial source this little
tiny signal
well actually very very tiny compared to
this this is really off scale right I do
have to use a slide here so I have an
analogy okay Paul and Mary may or may
not be real there's a bowl containing
six cups of water on the table how many
cups of water if any did Mary pour in
the bowl
that's the question they want to answer
all we really can tell is that there's a
bowl with water of the table that's as
bad as my jokes get now the situation is
further complicated with W map with 300
known point sources so now we've got a
whole bunch of point sources that we
have to take out of the map so now we've
got the Galactic contamination we got
the point sources and we got the
Galactic signal now for Planck
they've got 15,000 point sources we'll
try to put 15,000 point sources on this
image and you could basically build any
image you want so the problem for the
microwave background studies is that the
signal of interest is exactly at the
same frequency as the contaminated
Galactic and point source signals in
every single channel in reality there
are millions of microwave point sources
in the universe because every star
Kadeem it in the microwave and every
galaxy can these problems potentially
exists at every single point in the map
when one looks at the anisotropy maps
all the points matter even the points
with near zero signal
because they are contained in the
multiple analysis but the interfering
galactic signal can be greater than the
signal of interest by a very very large
amount because the signal of interest
can be close to zero that is why the
Galactic signal can be viewed as
contamination of a hundred a
thousandfold or more so this is shown
here you have your your map and your
resolving this in these multiples now
these are the poles that they really
care about in cosmology they don't care
about this map they care about this
stuff
but this stuff has positive and negative
contributions that means you're going
through zero right so all the points
even the points close to zero are
extremely important and you have no
signal to noise the entire Assembly of
laboratory experiments will say even in
medicine demonstrates that it is not
possible to extract a weak signal from a
powerful overline contaminant unless the
experiment has perfect knowledge of the
signal strength involved or the ability
to control the signal at the source it
is physically impossible to remove the
galactic foreground so how does the W's
map team do it because I've just said
it's impossible well they use different
methods over different years however the
methods have nothing that can salvage
the underlying problem so I just want to
highlight again what the maps really
look like so these are this is the five
channels down in the lower part of the
page of the slide and in the middle over
here you have these right the three on
the right the qw v and w band shown a
gift at lower resolution but here's what
they look like before they're cleaned
now do you see how much there was
galactic contamination before it's
cleaned see how it looks when they
present it
to us this is the this is what people
typically see they don't realize that
cube and actually has that much galaxies
in it and they don't even show the other
two because they're going to be red now
how do they get rid of the galactic
foreground well this is a great
experiment what you do is you break up
the signals in eleven regions some away
from the galaxy which you call region 0
and then eleven regions in the plane so
I guess twelve regions total so what do
they do well I now they're going to
they're gonna do some addition here
they've learned some algebra so what
they do is they take signal K and they
negate it and then they add it to ka
they negate Q they add V they add W now
this is what they did in region 4 now in
the adjacent region this is what they
did so you see that the coefficients are
completely different they're changing by
a factor of a thousand percent in two
regions adjacent to one another but the
reality is you're not allowed to negate
this signal all negations constitute a
violation of the laws of thermal
emission as they make a cool sky appear
warmer in the galaxy in addition one one
can be violating the third law of
thermodynamics because when one inverts
these signals he can mathematically
create negative temperatures which are
prohibited temperatures do not exist
below Absolute Zero just imagine if
there is no monopole at l2 now in
magnetic resonance I'll confess that we
can have negative temperatures because
we can have spin populations and invert
them so we can talk about negative
temperatures in our spins
they don't get to touch the galaxies so
here's what is happening now for region
zero look what they're doing each
channel is either positive as
choose to make it there's infinite
number of combinations we can all sit
down and come and take it some to add to
one and pick any numbers you want as
long as they add to one it's a valid
solution so what have they done it's
positive this term is negative okay then
they're negative again then positive but
look this I told you the data has to be
reproducible look at the coefficients
that they use for addition see how
they're changing over the years
this one has changed 43 percent that's a
big change in the same region just oh
and by the way the three year average
contains your one so when one inverts
the channels you're creating the
monopole the multiples you're creating
these negative temperatures and you are
in violation of thermodynamics so what
is the signal to noise in the M R in the
W map images so people see oh they see
these images oh my god this is a real
image we imaged the universe that's
because they don't really understand
what is an image so this is this famous
image after the removal of the galaxies
now here's the noise that they plot in
their paper so they give us a noise of
plus or minus a hundred micro Kelvin at
this resolution and we know that their
images I'm sorry we're at plus or minus
200 at this resolution these I can't
remember I don't think these are
identical resolutions but you can gather
from their data if you look at it
carefully they have signal-to-noise of
about two to one relative to the noise
of their instrument now I just want to
show you some some Mr images of things
or different images Wilson we won't say
they're all mr so what's the first one
right here I want you to guess this is a
2.1 signal-to-noise two to one
signal-to-noise image this is an actual
image probably of my head this one is of
importance to us here this is
an image of the moon and this one no one
will guess it's the image of my right
hand so when you have no signal-to-noise
guess what you don't have an image
unless it's reproducible and their image
is not reproducible so since the W map
images are not reproducible from year to
year this is seen in the need to take
different images at lower resolution
which you're not allowed to do when you
take a difference it has to be at the
same resolution because this makes
things look better than they really are
and their coefficients are changing from
year to year so here we have year one we
have the three year average now this
three year average actually contains
your one but when you take the
difference of these oh this does not
look too good because now you have to
degrade the resolution well when you
degrade the resolution you lower the
scale right this 30 doesn't mean
anything now because this is on a
different resolution see how big the
blocks are versus the tiny points here
you have to keep the resolution the same
so actually these two images don't agree
at all even though this image contains
that one so that gives you an idea how
bad it is
so to give it in a different perspective
I did a color difference map with the
resolution preserved so in this case now
I'm taking the three year average which
again contains year one and I subtracted
from year one do you see all the
leftover and I can blow it up for you
and you can see that there is a lot of
leftover and some of this signal is red
so the difference image indicates that
the data has nothing to do with
cosmology because these maps are not
stable from year to year let alone on a
cosmological time scale so if you have a
point that moves
remember we're measuring a signal that
is not supposed to have moved with the
universe they tell us as 13 billion
years old so it doesn't move
a year-to-year basis so in order to make
cosmological interpretation the W map
images must be perfectly stable from
year to year even fluctuations at the
level of a few pixels is disastrous and
it's a lot more than a few pixels
since the data must be stable on a
cosmological time scale so this is an
impossible experiment it cannot be done
now if you look they also give us new
analysis of the foreground and they
actually try to tell us well this
galactic signal I could break it into
free--free emission spinning dust
thermal dust it doesn't matter
it's all galaxies now the Planck
satellite I wrote a paper on the Planck
satellite which Steve talked about about
the conduction out of the four key
reference targets well when you have a
conductive path out of a blackbody it's
supposed to be a blackbody
it doesn't need to emit any photons to
get rid of its heat it can use
conduction so conduction is strictly
forbidden so if the satellite isn't even
designed properly the combination of
data collected at all of Planck's nine
frequencies this is a quote from them is
crucial to achieve the optimal
reconstruction of the foreground signal
in order to subtract them violate
thermodynamics and reveal the underlying
Cosmic Microwave Background so now we
have nine signals with Planck and now
we're going to play the subtraction game
with these guys I don't care how they
subtract it you cannot invert any of
these because these have real physical
meaning oh and we have our fifteen
thousand point sources now and they tell
us it's right for follow-up
characterization so here are my
conclusions
Penzias and Wilson are not allowed to
assign a temperature of three point five
Kelvin to their signal they don't know
the temperature because they don't know
that the source adheres to the condition
by which the laws of thermal emission
can be applied the applications of the
laws of thermal emission in obtaining a
real temperature requires that the
source be enclosed with a perfectly
absorbing enclosure or that it be a
solid and furthermore to have a thermal
spectrum you need a vibrational lattice
as you find in condensed matter and in
the BIGBANG
they will never be one as such the 3.5
Kelvin temperature is not real it's only
an apparent temperature and we have no
evidence that the measured signal
properly samples the entire energy
content of the source because if you
think of water water can put some energy
in the hydrogen bond it can put some in
the hydroxyl bond and we know from the
oceans that they can be a lot in
convection currents as so the
temperature assignment stands as a
violation of the laws of thermal
emission since Penzias and Wilson cannot
ascertain that this that the source of
their signal was devoid of the effects
of conduction and convection that is
that they properly sampled all the
degrees of freedom of the system in
which they're interested also relative
time of the monopole given the chemical
nature of the hydrogen bond and it's
proven ability to emit in this frequency
range we know that as Steve mentioned
from microwave ovens or submarine
commanders know it because as soon as
they break the surface of the sea
microwave is dead when they go
underwater that shows that the oceans
are very very powerful absorbers it is
certain that the monopole signal arises
from the oceans and that other water
containing bodies on our planet there is
no monopole at l2 this implies that the
earth cannot emit as much radiation in
these frequency bands as some might
believe that has consequences for those
who are interested in radiative balance
of the earth and everybody who's now
with global warming so it's important to
reassign the signal because humanity
cares about its proper assignment this
signal belongs to geophysics gnostic
cosmology now of course we do have
galactic signals source signals which we
also sample from the earth but we don't
care about those because they have no
meaning they have no meaning in
cosmology and they have no interest
relative to understanding the earth the
central signal that pen Justin Wilson
won the Nobel Prize for and that signal
is still tremendously important and
believe me I still believe they get
their Nobel Prize that was a great
discovery but the thing is it has been
miss assigned by others and now it has
to be reassigned and this is an example
of improper anchoring in physics
microwave signals come primarily from
our own galaxy and the the billions of
galaxies found in the universe the point
sources are innumerable this is relative
to the anisotropy Maps the microwave
anisotropy maps have no meaning and
science so it would beat it the
microwave anisotropy maps have no
physical meaning in science they
represent signal processing errors and
artifacts violations of thermodynamics
it is scientifically inappropriate to
negate some microwave signals and then
use those results to remove the
foreground this creates images with both
positive and negative signals or
temperatures something never found in
nature it constitutes at the minimum a
violation of the laws of radiation and
at worst a violation of the third law of
thermodynamics
once again multiples have no physical
meaning in science the anisotropy maps
are devoid of year-to-year stability
required of a signal of cosmological
importance as Steve also talked about
the axis of evil' so the axis of evil
which has been a subject of recent
discussion in cosmology is nothing more
than image processing artifacts which
arises from an attempt to
move the foreground and create the
multiples the Copernican principle
remains valid we do not live in a
geocentric universe so even though I
said the water signal comes from the
earth I'm not doing cosmology here I'm
just telling you the oceans are emitting
in the microwave we do not live in a
geocentric universe we have never seen
and will never see the first trillionth
of a trillionth of a trillionth of a
second after the Big Bang thank you very
much
[Applause]
[Music]
