a comet can be a wonder to behold for
thousands of years these visitors have
mystified enchanted and terrified
humanity and even today despite much
attention from astronomers the popular
science of comets is filled with enigmas
and unresolved mysteries to theoretical
views of comets today stand in stark
contrast but aided by recent discoveries
we can compare the two vantage points
and test them against presently known
facts it was only in the mid twentieth
century that a scientific consensus
emerged on the nature of comets in 1950
astronomer Fred Whipple proposed a model
that came to be known as the dirty
snowball hypothesis crippled envision
comets as conglomerates of frozen gases
mainly water carbon monoxide and carbon
dioxide together with the primordial
dust of the early solar system but a
dilemma had to be solved
comets lose considerable material at
each pass around the Sun this means that
the Comets we see cannot have been
around all that long so the Dutch
astronomer Yann Oort envisioned a vast
hoard of icy objects circling the Sun
about a thousand times more distant than
remote Pluto he imagined that after
billions of years one of these dirty
snowballs could be deflected from the
icy cloud by a passing star it might
then fall into the inner solar system to
produce an active comet
as astronomers came to accept the idea
they called this theoretical source of
comets the Oort cloud but in the early
1990s with improved observations it
became clear that numerous objects
circled the Sun at much closer distances
than the conjectured Oort cloud and
eventually all short-term comets were
theorized to have arrived from a disk of
debris called the Kuiper belt it's
extending out from Neptune's orbit and
containing objects that drifted inward
from the Oort cloud across the eons my
astronomers own admissions these
theoretical guesses leave numerous comet
mysteries unresolved but always it is
assumed that comets are composed of dust
and ice warmed by the Sun to create a
coma and tail leaving a rind of dust the
theory suggests that beneath the
blackened shallow crust pockets of gas
form at critical moments the pressure
breaks through the surface creating Jets
blasting vapor and dust away from the
nucleus but how well does this popular
theory explain what we've more recently
learned about comets
in an alternative view comets have a
much different history this view sees
comets is debris left by intense
electrical activity in an earlier phase
of solar system evolution not billions
of years ago but a much more recent
epoch of planetary instability and
violence one that reached even into
early human times this new perspective
combines historical facts with
surprising recent discoveries about
comets in the electrical interpretation
not just comets but asteroids and
meteors as well were born in planetary
upheaval as electric arcs blasted
material from the surfaces of planets
and moons to produce fused formations
identical in appearance to fused
material and laboratory experiments with
electric discharge here an arriving
comet moves on an elliptical path
through the sun's electric field an
exceedingly weak field but immensely
powerful across the great distances of
interplanetary space as the comet draws
closer to the Sun the charge imbalance
triggers electric discharge creating a
coma and long cometary tail the
mysterious Jets of comets can then be
understood in terms of arc discharges to
the nucleus very similar to industrial
electric discharge machining the
excavated material is accelerated into
space along the Jets filamentary
pathways intermittent and wandering arcs
he rode the surface and Burnet black
leaving the distinctive scarring
patterns of comet nuclei the Jets
explode from the nucleus at supersonic
speed and retained their coherent
structure for hundreds of thousands of
miles
scene in terms of an electrically
neutral vacuum in space nothing of this
sort should occur
the tails of comets reveal well-defined
twisting filaments extending up to tens
of millions of miles without dissipating
in the vacuum of space for proponents of
the electric model this contradiction of
neutral gas behavior is no surprise it
is the testament to the Comets
electrified environment the proponents
of this interpretation also say it's the
electric force that holds the spherical
coma in place against the solar wind as
the comet races around the Sun the
diameter of the visible coma will often
reach millions of miles and it's
surrounded by an even larger and more
improbable spherical envelope of
fluorescing hydrogen visible in
ultraviolet light for decades we've been
assured that comets were made in the
deepest of deep freezes in interstellar
space
comets coalesced from interstellar
Stardust the primal material of the
universe before the emergence of the Sun
as we know it or its planets and their
moons
a foundational principle of Comet theory
and of modern cosmology as a whole is
compositional zoning at the outermost
reaches of the sun's domain formative
processes were limited to the most
rudimentary material raw dust
constituted in an environment close to
absolute zero with no complex chemistry
in contrast bodies later formed close to
the emerging Sun would exhibit minerals
formed at relatively high temperatures
for decades this theoretical claim stood
fast and the claim was even carried into
space it's what prompted the Stardust
mission to comet ville 2 as indicated by
the very name of the scientific mission
the theory required that a comet be
constituted of Stardust
but the core assumptions of Comet theory
could not withstand the shock from the
data returned by the Stardust mission
launched on February 7th 1999 Stardust
carried with it a tray of aerogel
to capture samples of Comet dust from
built to and it returned these samples
to earth scientists could then view
microscopically the raw material of a
comet the first surprise was the size of
the dust grains much larger stronger
with far more complex structure and
chemistry than Theory allowed and the
gel did capture trivial amounts of the
expected microscopic dust invisible to
the naked eye and leaving shallow bowl
shaped pits in the aerogel but more
common by far were much deeper tracks
more in the shape of carrots than
shallow pits the particles themselves
were clearly visible to the naked eye to
their amazement the mission scientists
found elaborately developed crystalline
structures in the ville to dust it was
an exciting discovery but one that
challenged all prior theory of a comet's
origins crystalline structures cannot
form in the absence of minimum
temperatures temperatures unavailable in
interstellar space the specter of
silicates and cometary comas were
evident as far back as the probes of
Comet Halle though largely ignored but
the mystery couldn't be ignored after a
rival of the comet hale-bopp in 1997
this comet spectra placed an exclamation
point on crystalline silicon structures
in cometary comas to get past the
problem astronomers hedged their beds
they surmised that billions of years ago
the raw material of the comet was ever
so slightly warmed by an emerging Sun
then all of the discrete particles in a
vast circle around the Sun were
transported outward by means only
guessed at to the faraway and frigid
Oort cloud but this rationalization
failed outright once the scientists had
real Comet dust in their laboratories
the grains were simply too large and the
mineralogical and chemical compositions
far too complex
one puzzle was followed by another comet
theory assumed that water ice was a
primary constituent of active comets but
no water ice was detected on the nucleus
of ville two and not a trace of water
was found in the well-preserved comet
dust and yet paradoxically the raw comet
material of vilt
two contained iron and sulfur minerals
that can only be formed in the presence
of liquid water liquid water not in the
near-perfect vacuum of deep space and
not in a deep freeze
instead of trivial warming the built to
minerals revealed a diversity of
formative processes various sulfide
minerals requiring liquid water can only
exist below 210 degrees Celsius or 410
degrees Fahrenheit these minerals have
never seen higher temperatures but also
occurring in the comet dust was the
mineral olivine whose molecular
structure rapidly breaks down in the
very presence of water it's a common
igneous form an abundant byproduct of
volcanism perhaps the biggest surprise
was that some of the comet minerals such
as forsterite in the instant of their
formation were heated to thousands of
degrees forsterite is formed in the most
intense volcanic heating of silicates
but occurs also in lightning strikes to
silicate rocks the message could not
have been more emphatic
it was not just the hypothesized Oort
cloud that failed to work is advertised
the entire concept of compositional
zoning is applied to comets failed its
first acid test
comet material requiring moderate
temperatures in liquid water comet
material formed at exceedingly high
temperatures only the most trivial
levels of the presumed raw material of
comets interstellar dust a complete
absence of water
despite cometary material originally
formed in liquid water though the
olivine abundances could not have been
formed or even survived in the presence
of liquid water and of course liquid
water requires atmospheric or other
pressure it cannot exist in the extreme
vacuum of interstellar space
- this seemingly contradictory picture
we must add extreme selective heating
selective heating because much of the
compositional material could not survive
the super heating that created olivine
forsterite
and other crystalline minerals the Ville
- discoveries have forced upon comet
science one inescapable fact in our own
cosmic neighborhood the diverse mineral
content of ilk - is typical only of
planets in the habitable zone of a fully
developed Sun
when the fundamentals of a theory are
falsified by unexpected findings a new
vantage point is required one that
explains and predicts the surprises
without introducing new contradictions
the conjectured Oort cloud freezer
forming and preserving comets for
billions of years is falsified by the
vill to findings only the diverse
surface environments of rocky planets
can provide the required raw material
and only the recent formation of comets
can explain why these rapidly degraded
objects are still with us the bold
question must now be asked where comets
created and in recent periods of
planetary instability and intense
electrical events would minerals formed
in liquid water then come as a surprise
would comets now exhibiting no water be
a surprise or crystalline structure
suggesting igneous processes or minerals
pointing to the exceedingly high
temperatures of lightning a more unified
picture of comet formation is available
to us and if comets were born
electrically what might the causative
connection be to asteroids and
meteorites the apparent cousins of the
comet
built to mineral cuba night a copper
iron sulphide is abundant on earth and
so2 on mars
in fact it's found in Martian meteorites
now known to have been blasted up to
escape velocity from the surface of Mars
later to arrive at Earth a few years ago
things now stated by astronomers would
have been considered preposterous
astronomers now acknowledge that the
margin moon Phobos long called a
captured asteroid was formed out of
material blasted from the Martian
surface for the source of a comet's
constituent materials planets close to
the sun's habitable zone are the most
reasonable places to look the foremost
candidate is the planet Mars in this
intellectual adventure we must revisit
all earlier ideas about solar system
history evidence for high-energy
electrical events can no longer be
ignored the popular bill in your
scenarios describing a comet's origins
will be displaced by things now
established as fact
and the changing picture of solar system
history will surely not stop at the new
story of the comet
you
