Welcome to Space News from the Electric
Universe, brought to you by The
Thunderbolts Project at Thunderbolts.info.
A new discovery is again challenging
planetary scientists' ideas about impacts
from space and the rate at which they
are thought to strike the Earth. For
decades, many scientists have believed
that asteroid bombardments, such as that
which is thought to have killed the
dinosaurs, occur on our planet at regular
intervals of about every 26 million
years. A popular theory was that a dim
companion star called Nemesis would
approach our Sun at 26 million year
intervals, inevitably causing mass
extinctions on Earth. However, the
companion star has never been found and
the problems for the hypothesis have
continued to grow. Recently, a team of
scientists performed analysis of 22
craters on Earth, which are thought to
have formed from impacts within the last
five hundred million years. A phys.org
report on the study describes the
research as follows, "The timeline of
events was represented in a circle
with a particular range - in this case, 26
million years. If events repeated
themselves regularly within this time-
span, the points would have arranged
themselves in a particular area of the
circle. The researchers showed that there
was no such accumulation." The greatest
problem that the study revealed is that
some massive so-called impact craters
appeared to be almost precisely the same
age, even though they appear on different
continents. The co-author of the study
states, "Some of these craters could have
been formed by the collision of an
asteroid accompanied by a moon. But in
other cases, the impact sites are too far
away from each other for this to be the
explanation." When asked to explain the
appearance of Chicxulub crater in Mexico
and the Boltysh crater in the Ukraine,
which are thought to have each formed from
impacts around the same time about 66
million years ago; the author states, "We
have no definitive explanation for that."
But one of the greatest mistakes in
modern geology is the assumption that
the only
processes responsible for craters are
either impacts or volcanism. On this
series, we have repeatedly reported on
the experimental research which has
proven that electrical discharges
produced almost every known type of
crater, including many heretofore
anomalous crater types; from crater
chains to hexagonal craters, smaller
craters appearing preferentially on the
rims of larger craters and the
improbably high rate of highly circular
craters. In fact airless worlds, such as
Mercury, the dwarf planet Ceres and our
own Moon, reveal bodies that bear startling
resemblances to the cratered surfaces in
an industrial process called electrical
discharge machining. In the Electric
Universe theory, Earth also features
dramatic craters which formed not from
impacts but from high-energy electrical
discharges. Let us look closely at one of
the most dramatic and widely studied
alleged impact craters on Earth. The
electrical interpretation changes
everything institutional science tells
us about so-called extinction-level
events due to giant impacts from space.
The aforementioned Chicxulub crater is
widely accepted to be the impact site of
the asteroid that killed off the
dinosaurs. In 2006, The Thunderbolts
Project published The Picture Of The Day
article that analyzes in depth the
evidence that, scientists believe,
supports the giant impact theory of the
crater's formation. We summarize the
analysis here. The crater is a circular
structure up to 300 kilometers across,
which mostly lies under the water off
the coast of the Yucatan Peninsula in
the Gulf of Mexico. The crater's multiple
concentric rings are thought to have
resulted from the shock of the impact
which would have blasted debris high
into the atmosphere and around the world.
A layer of iridium-enriched sediment has
been found worldwide, supposedly the
result of the debris cloud from the
theoretical impact event. Other evidence
is thought to exist in the form of
melted spherules and shocked quartz
crystals, found in formations around the
Gulf, which are believed to be debris
left by the impact
induced tsunami. Above the bed of
spherules is a thick layer of jumbled
rocks, including large boulders and
cobbles. The distribution of the iridium
layer is contrary to the expected drift
of a debris cloud. Impacts from various
angles have been proposed to try to
explain both the crater asymmetry and
distribution of ejecta. Cores inside the
crater reveal Upper Cretaceous fossils
in undisturbed layers -- fossils of the
creatures that the impact was supposed
to have wiped out. Clearly, these layers
were laid down after the events.
Additionally, the alleged tsunami
deposits in Mexico, Guatemala and Belize,
show layering that suggested some were
laid down over a long time. These include
separate layers with embedded spherules
that had been claimed to be direct
ejecta fallout from the Chicxulub impact.
Recent investigation linked two such
layers to "two events separated by
thousands of years during which
limestones accumulated and
invertebrates burrowed down on the ocean
floor." Extinctions always seem to
coincide with both continental flood
basalts and imagined meteorite impacts
but under the prevailing interpretation
the odds of this happening
simultaneously are vanishingly small. The
electrical origin of the Chicxulub
crater and surrounding geology resolves
all of the contradictions of the
evidence. The electrical current of the
cosmic thunderbolt, lasting longer than
the forces of an impact, would have
melted large amounts of material and
formed vast clouds of spherules, a key
signature of electrical discharge. Indeed,
more than 99 percent of the global
iridium layer is made of the spherules--
droplets that condensed from vaporized
rock. Only the remaining 1% of the debris
consisted of rock pulverized directly
into dust. The spherule-producing
ability of discharges has been
demonstrated in laboratory experiments.
Also, the electromagnetic pinch effect in
a discharge channel can generate
extremely large pressures sufficient to
shock quartz crystals. When it comes to
the question of mass extinctions, it is
not clear that an impact like the one
claimed to have created the Chicxulub
crater is sufficient to cause such a thing.
The complexities of the evidence for
extinctions do not find simple
explanations in either impact or
volcanic models. But the one obvious
factor that is never mentioned is that
the dinosaur megafauna cannot survive on
the present Earth because they are too
heavy to live. It seems to be forgotten
that the early dinosaur discoveries forced
scientists to conclude that they must
have been waders to offset their great
weight. Whatever happened to the
dinosaurs was far more than a puny
asteroid impact could inflict. Nothing
was the same on Earth after a global
alteration of Earth's gravity. The
triumph of the impact model was not so
much because of its adequacy in
explaining the evidence as it was a
default result. Only impact and volcanic
explanations were considered. And the
spherules and shocked quartz clearly ruled
out vulcanism. As theoretical
geophysicist Jay Melosh says, "We know so
little about impacts." But an electrical
mechanism was never considered because
astronomers assure geologists that the
planets have always been under present
orbits and electrical events in space
never happen.
For continuous updates on Space News
from the Electric Universe, stay tuned to
Thunderbolts.info
