welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info the comet 67p has provided an
avalanche of astonishing discoveries
that may puzzle scientists for years to
come
and one problem that will simply not go
away is the seemingly impossible dooms
or doom like ripples at the Comets neck
at its first observation the feature
drew gasps of disbelief from scientists
and science media alike as planetary
geologist Emily locked a wallow wrote on
October 28th 2014 other features are odd
because they look familiar and yet have
no right being on a comet I've called
them rhythmic ridges but to pretty much
everyone who looks at them they look
like sand dunes which are just plain
impossible on a body that has neither
atmosphere nor much of any gravity more
recent close-up images of the impossible
dunes have only deepened the mystery
emily lacta Walla is of course correct
within the standard model of comets and
comet origins so-called sand dunes or
dune like ripples are clearly impossible
however vision scientists have had no
choice but to grasp for an explanation
they have suggested that the Comets Jets
act as a kind of wind to create a
Dueling process despite the absence of
the required atmosphere dr. Nicholas
Thomas said to the New York Times you
have to ask yourself is that possible
you can convince yourself you could make
the move it's plausible at least at the
moment this remarkable conjecture has
even been given a scientific sounding
name localized gas driven transport a
hint of another possibility has been
suggested on at least one science news
service on January 24th the Universe
Today website suggested of the doom like
ripples formation electrostatic
levitation of dust charged by sunlight
may also play a role
indeed electrostatic dust levitation on
the moon has been a subject of
scientific interest for several decades
since Apollo astronauts observed
fountain
of dust hundreds of kilometres above the
lunar surface the implications of this
discovery have long been clear for other
airless bodies in the solar system we
can now see on the horizon of the
illuminated portion of 67 piece nucleus
a cloud of dust lit by the Sun both the
behavior of the Jets and the Comets dust
layers defy the notion of an icy body
moving through an electrically inert
vacuum the increasingly energetic Philip
mentary Jets are aligned and draw
together and it appears that the dust is
being gathered in two unique
configurations on the surface and
globally levitated above the surface
this increases the confidence of
electric universe proponents that
surface electrical activity could
profoundly reconfigure the dust layers
in the course of the next few months we
note that the most abundant and
energetic Jets originated at the Comets
neck which is frequently in shadow and
is the coldest region on the nucleus
which means it should be the least
active region if solar warming is the
cause of the Jets nor have we seen
evidence that the Jets are connected to
the supposed pressurized
chambers which are said to provide the
quote nozzles from which the Jets
explode as noted in a recent space news
episode for more than 15 years members
of the electric universe community have
been exploring the effects of electrical
discharges and electric fields on
surface dust these experiments have
successfully replicated many familiar
planetary features including dunes and
dune like ripples confirming the ability
of the electrical force to organize dust
material much more efficiently than
mechanical wind or gravity alone
consider also the significance of this
experimental research for our
understanding of planetary science the
planet Mars has an atmosphere less than
1% as dense as Earth's and it's
scientists have puzzled for decades over
the planets towering dust devils and
global dust storms today the electrified
nature of the giant dust devils has been
acknowledged by NASA investigators
mechanical wind alone does not explain
the Martian sand dunes a
more than it can explain the dunes on
67p in the past few decades scientific
papers have suggested minor
electrostatic and photoelectric effects
on comets and asteroids but comet
theorists as a whole have yet to give
serious attention to the electric
universe theory of a comet the
electrical interpretation sees comets as
negatively charged bodies moving through
a weak electric field of the Sun comets
simply pick up the negative charge
during their time at greater distances
from the Sun a new scientific paper
appears to have confirmed yet another
prediction of this theory in the fall of
2014 the Rosetta orbiters ion and
electron sensor measured a high level of
excess electrons surprisingly close to
60 7-piece nucleus the paper reads IES
has revealed the presence of greatly
enhanced electron fluxes and densities
which appear to be associated with
cometary ions created near the nucleus
electron fluxes within a couple of
hundred of kilometers of the nucleus
greatly exceed solar wind electron
fluxes the presence of surprising
densities of electrons near the common
nucleus is precisely what we do expect
if cometary displays are electric
discharge phenomena the successful
predictive record of the electric comet
theory stands in stark contrast to the
record of the 65 year old dirty snowball
model indeed in recent weeks we've seen
some remarkable statements from the
Rosetta team in January dr. Nicholas
Thomas was quoted as saying by the
science News org website Rosetta has
blown the dirty snowball idea out of the
water
however the ad hoc theories constructed
by the Rosetta team still hold to the
original story of comets as primordial
icy bodies from the early solar system
how institutional science responds to
the now acknowledged falsification of
the dirty snowball model will be a
crucial test of its health and integrity
whatever the outcome the current
challenges for comet scientists will
simply not go away
for continuous updates on space news
from the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
