I want to start by asking your question
how can liquids behave like an ionized
gas plasma okay the answer I think is
the plasma behavior depends on the
motion of charged particles which are
free to move in response to
electromagnetic forces so if the liquid
is partially ionized than the charged
particles in the liquid ought to
experience similar forces and the liquid
will behaviors sort of similarly to the
ionized particles in the gas so what
we're going to do is to look at three
examples of partially ionized liquids
and compare their behavior to plasma
behavior in space so the structure of
the talk first of all we'll examine the
floating water bridge excuse me
and the various attempts to explain it
without using plasma behavior then we'll
compare it to the way plasma behaves in
space we'll find that some of the
puzzling features of the floating water
bridge can be explained by using plasma
behavior and the second half of the talk
will then use the same plasma behavior
and professor Pollux easy layers in
water to offer an explanation of unusual
fluid flows in plant roots and blood
vessels so we're starting off with a
floating water bridge now you've already
seen this a couple of times already
courtesy of Professor and Elmer
Fuchs who made the film so the floating
water bridge forms between two beakers
of pure water when a large potential
difference of about 15 thousand volts or
above is applied between them and here
you can see two features of the bridge
there's a nearly cylindrical tube of
water 1 to 2 millimeters in diameter
between the beakers and the tube can be
stretched up to about 25 millimeters
long and the bridge is like a tightrope
it doesn't sag as you would expect it to
under its own weight even when it's
stretched out to 25 millimeters now this
film also by Elmer Fuchs shows that the
water is rotating
the films in slow motion because the
rotation is actually too fast to see
with a naked eye so folks have shown
that water in the bridge is separated
into an annulus and an inner core and
the circular annulus is the part that's
rotating in laser light shown in from
the end of the bridge
you can see that the light is curving
around the rotating annulus part and
avoiding the core in the middle so it
gives you some indication of that shape
I'm talking about now folks also found
that the annulus and core each carry
water along the bridge but in opposite
directions so that's quite extraordinary
really water is flowing in both
directions at the same time now not only
water earth but charge flows across the
bridge as well now charge flowing in
opposite directions is an electric
current by using pH dyes fuchs has shown
that the bridge transports charge or
current from one beaker to the other and
here we can see charge regions adjacent
to the terminals boiling off as it were
charged during an experiment and at the
end of the experiment you can see the
difference in pH and the Meekers now
Armstrong back in 1893 who is the guy
who first discovered the floating water
bridge the experiment was in for Kaufman
for about a hundred years Armstrong
found that the annulus is positively
charged and the core is negative so
there we can see how we can get a
current flowing across the bridge
positive charge in one direction and
negative charge in the other is
equivalent to a current in one direction
so to summarize a floating water bridge
is a stiff cylindrical tube with an
annulus and call structure there's
simultaneous bi-directional flow of
water and charge across the bridge and
the annulus is rotating very fast around
the core what's more the annulus is
positive and the core is negative so
researchers
approached the analysis of the floating
water bridge from both the classical and
the quantum directions the principle of
the classic EHD approach is that
electric stress causes the axial tension
in the bridge
according to Taylor electrodynamic
currents are assumed to be so small that
magnetic induction effect can be ignored
Bertram and Sowell expanded on Taylor's
analysis but without achieving complete
success they stated although the
quantitative agreement between theory
and experiment is not as close as one
might like using surface transport as an
adjustable parameter it brings them into
agreement
sounds great isn't it but the problem
with that is that the adjustable
parameter is completely arbitrary its
values chosen to make the equations work
it's not a measured value from the
experiment well of course you can make
it work if you can choose any value you
like so there's something missing
why'd Amana lies the water bridge in
terms of the Maxwell pressure pencil in
a dielectric fluid he assumed deionized
water throughout because the need for
deionized water is evidently necessary
to prevent conductivity effects from
masking the insulating dielectric
effects in other words his analysis only
worked with a dielectric but the
presence of charge and the beakers after
an experiment shows that the water does
become partially ionized this obviously
casts doubt on widens analysis
you
so what's missing what's missing from
the LRC's is that they don't account for
the annulus and course structure all the
bi-directional flow or the fast rotation
of the annulus now I suggest that these
may introduce additional electromagnetic
effects which haven't been taken into
account because as we know the water is
charged will therefore compare the
floating water bridge with another
filamentary structure in which an
electromagnetic effects dominate the
behavior here's a picture of plasma
behavior in space now Rogoff and others
have described plasma as the fourth
state of matter the other three of
course are solids liquids and gases
plasmas are estimated to constitute over
99% of the visible universe and plasma
as you all know is often described as an
ionized gas but as Alphen said whilst
this is technically true it doesn't
reflect the complexity of the behavior
of plasma under the influence of
electromagnetic forces normal gases
simply can't do what a plasma does
plasma can transmit an electric current
in a defined filament without affecting
the surrounding plasma as we see here in
the Cygnus loop the plasma rearranges
itself to form what is effectively an
insulated cable around the current path
and so the bulk plasma the rest of the
plasma in space isn't affected and the
way it does this is by forming a
rotating cylinder of adjacent layers of
positive and negative charge on the
outside of the current this filamentary
arrangement is known as a berkland
current now the behavior of the berkland
current is governed by Maxwell's
equations of the Lorentz force law
applied to the individual charged
particles in the filament essentially
each and every particle has to follow
the magnetic field lines where it is but
it also by moving it modifies the same
magnetic field lines so according to
both alpha and peratt's the net result
of this
interaction is a result is a spiraling
filamentary pattern in which the
circularity of the paths of the
particles is dependent on their radial
distance from the central axis of the
filament so here you can see a diagram
with three examples chosen at random the
further you are from the centre of the
current the more rate more circular the
path you have to follow so strongly
helical and the outside layers so the
charged particles always follow the
magnetic field line direction at their
location and this explains the
alternative name for a birth length
current as a field aligned current the
field aligned direction is the most
efficient direction for current to
traveling through a magnetic field and
that's because the Lorentz force law
effectively imposes an electrical
resistance on motion transverse to the
magnetic field that means the resistance
is lowest in the direction parallel to
the magnetic field therefore the current
is in a fourth free configuration when
it's field line one other effects
important here the outer paths are
strongly helical and that means that the
outer layers are rotating around the
axis of the filament and that in turn
generates more electromagnetic forces
and they are an essential part of the
stability of the berkland current so the
summarized berkland current plasma
behavior means that a berkland current
has a form of annulus and called
structure it has bi-directional flows
because of current of opposite charge
particles and it also has rotation of
the outer layer that sounds a bit like
the missing bits of the floating water
region now
