welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info it is a great paradox in comet
science we are told that a comet nucleus
is a ball of ice or dirty snowball or
icy fluff ball it accreted billions of
years ago in the solar system's infancy
comets are said to sublimate ices as
they move toward the Sun and solar
warming is responsible for much cometary
activity including the energetic Jets
and the production of the familiar coma
entail more recently as the required
ices have not been observed on comet
nuclei scientists and science media have
taken to referring to comets as quote
deep-fried ice cream insisting that the
body of ice must be present but is
buried under an outer crust if his
reasoning leaves unexplained countless
puzzles and comets science for instance
it is an unresolved mystery how a
so-called ball of ice deep-fried or
otherwise can survive an extremely close
approach to the Sun as we see with
occasional sungrazer comets in 2011 the
Comet Lovejoy
astonished astronomers when the comet
nucleus somehow survived intact after
one hour in the Sun's corona also
unresolved is the question of how comets
begin producing evidence of water in
their comas and vast distances from the
Sun much too far to explain through
solar heating such was the case with the
comet 67p whose apparent water output as
well as the production of an amazing
abundance of rich molecules was first
detected while still hundreds of
millions of kilometres from the Sun and
countless other enduring puzzles abound
we asked the question can the science of
electrochemistry provide the answer to
many Comet mysteries dr. franklin
anariba a specialist in electrochemistry
was a featured speaker at the
Thunderbolts project's international
conference the tipping point in 2013 dr.
anariba is also scheduled to speak at
the forthcoming 2015 conference
path of discovery taking place June 25th
to 29th in Phoenix Arizona we now
present you in full dr. anariba z-- 2013
talk commentary electrochemistry a
transcript of the talk may be found in
the description box of this video ok so
what I want to do here is try to give
you an illustration of what can happen
actually in comets so as you can see the
time of my my talk here is cometary
electrochemistry and actually that's the
only thing that's new here is the term
when you look at the leadership for
instance you see the astro
electrochemistry actually is this plenty
of material air
I sure do chemistry means that allowed
the reactions that happen in space
I actually driven by a potential
difference in addition I came across a
series of Russian scientists who
actually proposed that electricity in
the nucleus of comets can actually drive
that the icing process of say water of
methane so those ideas and their new
ways new here is the idea that you have
electrochemistry or electricity driving
chemical reactions either in the nucleus
of the comments or in the comments or
the comments that's what's nice and
that's what I want to talk about and I
figured that most of you don't know who
I am and so I just wanted to point here
the fact that I live in Singapore
I've been work living working there for
4 years and I think some of you I think
I talked to being there before alright
so this is the outline of my talk it's
going to be brief and I'm gonna keep it
simple because of the audience is very
diverse tell you a little bit about what
is electrochemistry why is the
composition or comets and how the
combination of these two concepts can
actually allow us to provide with a you
know it's like a framework of reactors
happening in comments I'll also mention
the other chemical model in question the
question about cyanide production and
how the model can explain this and I
just make a 1 prediction if this model
is correct there should be one
observation that which
to see in the future okay so what is
very interesting for a chemistry
standpoint is that energy in a way
electricity it's kind of freeing nature
this is a very good example here and you
probably know this this is a zinc
material and here we have a copper and
once we connect this to what's going to
happen is that electrons that are
actually in the zinc we actually go in
direction of the copper now electrons
going
flowing in a particular direction is
electricity this happens in
spontaneously so nature I should give us
free energy the energy that you need to
spend is in how you arrange these
materials so that's that's the main
concept here now another concept I want
to I want to be pouring here is this in
electrochemistry if you have this
particular self which is suitable take
cell as a function of time what's going
to happen is the zinc material will
actually dissolve it give us of the
electron and a same time dielectric come
from the atom they actually covers a
higher right so in the negative side in
a negative region of the particular cell
you get the solution and on the positive
region here in the copper you're going
to get a accumulation of material this
material comes in because this is this
copper here is in solution this is a
copper solution right but any other
material be attractive because in this
region you're going to have extra
electrons so they'll be attracted to it
will capture this electrons and the
material we accumulate so a key point
here is that you have active electrons
you're going to have this solution on
the negative region you can have
accumulation of material in the positive
region that's the key part in this slide
now energy like I said before is
naturally storing metals we can harness
it it's not difficult to harness it we
actually do it all the time
the example this is a batteries
batteries is its energy right this is
story in the only difference here is how
is a range that's it
another concept that I want to introduce
here in this slide is the idea having
inner electrodes here show you active
electrons they actually the electrode
itself actually dissolves accumulates
and in this particular example here I'll
say that
have electrodes which actually provide
only the surface with the
electrochemical reaction occurs good
example these are carbon gold palladium
platinum for instance because there are
no reactive materials right now this
will come handy when you think about the
nuclear of comment interactions actually
occurring in that particular case in
location now I know some of you have
know began to chemistry the chemist is
actually a very difficult subject so
what I'll do here is I'm going to tell
you what is the main concept of
electrochemistry it's very simple you
can have a reduction in oxidation
reaction here's an example of an
oxidation reaction which occurs in a
negative charge region and I'm doing
this on purpose because the terminology
that we use electrochemistry is
different from physicists and engineers
in terms of cathode and anode so in the
negative charge region you have the say
for instance I add some of our atom it
gives up three electrons and you get an
iron right these electrons over here if
you're able to push them in a particular
direction is what give us a current and
the reduction will actually occur in the
positive region
yeah good example here two protons plus
two electrons will give you a hydrogen
gas all right so now this is the basic
electric current this is what cannot
survive to carry at this point well well
do now is talk about comments why is the
compositional comments well now we know
the comments are actually formed by
several minerals kind of minerals this
is a good example over here this is
olivine associated walk this means that
you probably associated with high
temperatures maybe with lightning and
this is just various forms of olivine
and while pinpoint to you is the fact
that they have the rich in transition
metals so this issue metals are
important in actor chemistry because
either they provide a surface or they
provide electrons that easy to reduce an
oxidized
they have various oxidation states
another point about the people in here
is it is all silicates silicon and
oxygen silicon oxygen a very abundant
oxygen is a very rich lecture or atom
electron rich which can also provide the
lectures to provide current
provided you have a potential difference
another example is vision height
associated with Mars and moon meteorites
again very reaching iron Cuba Knights
copper iron and sulfur form in liquid
water this has been found in comets this
is very interesting because that means
the very complex chemistry going on here
also rich in in iron
another decision made at that have been
found in the nuclei of comets are
titanium vanadium in the form of nitrous
platinum Ozma vitinho toxin malignant
just to mention a few
so you can see is very complex the
compensation for electrochemical points
complex in comments in the comment or
comments this is the several gases that
we identified carbon monoxide carbon
dioxide series of oxides with nitrogen
software oxides hydroxyl and I left our
oxygen a night a molecular molecular
oxygen molecular nitrogen so did you
find all this compounds in comets that
will tell you already that this is very
complex chemistry going on here in
addition to that you find organic
molecules methane cyanide meth no eating
anything
ether ammonia carbonates D so again the
level of complexity is beginning to get
more higher I would say and more complex
organic molecules I'd be identifying in
comments I mean let's use natural for
instance vinegar or acetic acid
amorphous carbon you can think about
charcoal polycyclic hydrocarbons with
very important in in in agriculture for
instance people who you know the work
and culture they always talk about P
ages because they control basically the
pH and in soils for instance and
surprisingly dry soon this is an amino
acid so how can this motor work twelve
artists of chemistry I'm talking about
the composition comment so how can we
apply this major chemical model here is
a cartoon and it's not up to scale as
you can see
thusly we have the Sun and here we have
the solar wind which are called the
proton flux because that's mostly the
composition even though there is no
electrons in there and here we have
nuclear a nucleus da steel ion plasma
tail in a coma this is what this is what
we see right this is the typical
observation for comments so why am i
proposing here is this paradigm or this
model can be true if we show that we
have a potential difference in this
particular case making the Sun the
positive region because of that or the
other protons and of the solar wind and
the nuke the nickels would be the
negative region now if you're able to
show this then you can apply with our
fear and to chemical model so this is
the key part I think this is why it's
going to take us a lot of time in the
future try to show that there's a
potential difference here you can do it
indirectly now in detail how is this one
going to work well we work at the
following way here is a electrical
negative region which is can be the
nucleus right because it's rich in
minerals with silicates and to set your
meadows and here it would be the solar
wind which surrounds the nucleus as the
comet approaches the Sun okay so what we
need to do here like I said before is to
have a potential difference if this is
the case this would drive any reaction I
saw you know the key part here is that
the potential difference is big enough
to drive there any reaction that you
want we do this in a lab all the time
now this potential difference is going
to create a current flow from the
nucleus towards the the positive region
which is the solar wind while doing so
you can see the comet why because what
happens is you have this flow of
electrons the electrons gonna collide
with some of the electricity on these
molecules say for instance carbon
monoxide right so the electro there's
been driven from the nucleus towards the
positive region we go to the comarca
live with some of
gasses it's going to excite electrons
first we'll see concealed carbon
monoxide to a higher energy State
we need the case down it is going to
give off energy this energy is the one
we see in terms of you know in the
visible range right so the intensity of
the coma and the colour of the coma
would depend on what kind of gas is
being excited right so it depends on the
abundance now what kind of reactions can
we have on the nucleus and if I get it
will be a complex of some of you because
this is chemistry but I will keep it
simple here we know that iron two-plus
for instance exists in these minerals
right it's a really iron but if you have
a potential difference thermodynamic
squeaking this is possible you can give
up an electron this electron means
current the same for manganese and so on
so forth even you can even have
manganese right with some of the other
water vapour or gases that can be in the
coma you can have more complex
structures you can find you can find
solids manganese oxide for instance and
again you get current some of the
silicate material that I show you I cook
the a part of the mineral can react with
protons from the solar wind and you can
get some of hydroxides I mean the
possibilities are endless right because
we all know exactly what's really
happening there the point here is you
can get current and you can get material
what happens when the part of the sorry
on the positive side I can envision only
one type of reaction and it is the
formation of hydrogen gas that's it all
right okay so in more detail if we have
you if we have a common here this is a
cartoon this model can actually explain
the plasma formation of the coma right
depending again on put or the abundance
of all these gases maybe all the gases
are left up so for instance if you have
80 % light abundance you get one
particular color but again tensity
if you have oxygen a higher abundance
80% the color of the coma and intensive
the coma is going to be different well
let me see if I can finish this up soon
the plasma tail can be explained by the
formation of ions the plasma tails most
positive ions you can explain here in
addition to the
the dust tail can be explained by the
formation of these solids oxides
hydroxides in addition to that also some
chunks of minerals and most importantly
here is a I wanna start talking about
and thinking about this particular model
I predicted the formation of hydrogen
gas
even before I read the literature
because I have no background on comets
and was able to see here is that I was
it was very exciting
he's a help Bob for instance comment a
hydrogen cloud was actually observed
very large hydrogen cloud
so this mod also explains that now how
can we know it is he like to connect a
Prosecco hang on in comments there was
this particular exhibition four years
ago silent information and not dust
formation so what happened here is this
in the standard model whenever you have
sublimation of a gas dust will always
form because the idea is that you have a
dirty ball or dirty ice ice wall right
so sublimation of say water will
actually bring out formation against
excuse me of particles in this case we
don't see that so how can we how can we
explain this electrochemistry two
different ways one way is the standards
of chemistry where their action actually
occurs in the nucleus right you know I
was able to see for instance and I'm
rushing here because of time was able to
see here is that I mean amines I should
precursor for signed affirmation
provided you have acidic conditions in
the presence of protons so that in the
solar wind is it's a it's makes it
amenable viable so this is a methylamine
we have a glycine a more complex it
means well so as you have these
structures they're in a coma and the
nucleus you can get you can get cyanide
and I'm going to skip this like ago I
just gonna make sure very quick is that
this is a way that you can actually do
experiments on the lab you can actually
have those gases in this container here
you have two electrodes tungsten and
soon still you apply a potential and you
carry the reaction what you have the
reaction you apply electric field you
push it into a mass spectrometer and you
can detect the product and this work has
been done already by
Navaro Gonzalez in national university
of Mexico he was trying to simulate time
to simulate the reactions in the
atmosphere of Titan and that's what he
did so this is elect in 1967 work by
Matthew see in Matthews I think was
mentioned yesterday that this particular
experiment will actually give you amino
acids but this particular experiment
also give you if you have a combination
of methane in ammonium once you give you
sign our articles if you have a coronal
discharge and this has been done this
experimental data you'll also get
hydrocarbons in Sinai importantly if you
simulate lightning in nitrogen and
methane
you also get had the carpets in silence
so there's two possibilities here and I
got a few more slides I think to go here
what I'm going to show you here briefly
is that you can have a reversibility
between CO and in alcohols CO and
alcohols Co and alcohols and methane so
there's no direct connection between CO
and in cyanide which I was looking for
it's a two-step process you can have the
reduction of CL into into into methane
and then this can be - you know maybe
electrical discharge form cyanide this
is the two-step process I didn't find
one voice directly and this is the last
slide here so please bear with me I got
17 minutes I think I got one minute left
this is a soccer ball tomogram some of
you have never seen this before
alright so let me see if I can I can
help you out follow it this is a graph
of voltage in this direction and current
in this direction I did I didn't write
it here mine my negligence this is
current this is voltage if you start up
voltage a and I give you the direction
over here this is you know you have two
electrodes and you have a solution for
instance or you have gases if you if you
go from voltage a voltage B and you have
chemicals in his system you be able to
see sort of reduction process here so
whatever chemical it is it will gain an
electron or several electrons and you
move it all the way to bowl touch B and
then if you reverse it right whatever
compound you you form here by the
reduction process we
oxidize and it make sure you get to this
point so here you have a reduction
oxidation this is a typical typical
soccer ball time entry process now how
can you supply to comments well if you
this is the the sound here's the idea
about the comment a little bit and this
is the direction come if you go in this
reaction for instance as the comet
approaches the Sun you should be able to
see a reaction why every reaction would
that be depends on the composition as
the comment departs the Sun you should
be able to see another type of reaction
if it is reversible you should be the
reversibility here but okay maybe it's
not reversible but you should be able to
see a reaction here and no interaction
here so this is the prediction that I
make a good example here is going
between amino and in cyanide right I
don't know if NASA had to make these
reservations but this should be
something that you occur all right so
this is the last slide here thank you
for your time and well basically saying
here is that this is a illustration this
is still not a theory
this is just an illustration because I
don't have four weeks to work on this
but it seems to be the distance to
chemical model while you have provided
you have I said I repeat the voltage
difference can account for the hydrogen
gas formation the plasma and the coma
does tale information and the ionized
plasma that you see do you see there and
actually these are and also any other
reaction that doesn't involve dust dust
formation and this model can actually
allow us to predict based on the
reversibility of electrochemical systems
what will happen well thank you for your
time
for continuous updates on space news
from the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
