welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info in part 2 of this presentation we
continue our discussion of late pioneer
Halton Arps contributions to science and
astronomy proponents of plasma cosmology
in the electric universe have paid
special attention to Arps theoretical
research including his thesis of
intrinsic redshift Arps discoveries
allow for a new cosmology free from the
assumptions of the Big Bang and it's
bizarre mathematical speculations ops
contribution to the electric universe is
of fundamental importance because both
are based on observation and experiment
instead of mathematical speculation Arps
discovery of the quantized redshift of
quasars revealed the nonsense of
particle physicists who believe that
quantum effects only apply to the
subatomic realm quasars are ejected from
the nucleus of an active galaxy at a
good fraction of the speed of light
which implies the matter in the quasar
has extremely small initial mass the
quasars then slow down to become a
companion galaxy which implies their
mass increases in quantum jumps over
time up was very interested in the
implications of his discoveries he
related the frequency of the redshifted
light from quasars to the youthfulness
of newly created matter he wrote in
seeing red the younger the electron
making the orbital jump the less massive
it will be and the weaker that is more
redshifted will be the emitted photon
moreover as the particles age they
become more massive therefore the
ensemble becomes more luminous as its
luminosity grows its redshift drops
evolving into what we consider normal
galaxies like our own also as the
assemblage ages its growing mass slows
its initial high ejection velocity in
order to conserve momentum the galaxies
finish with very slow relative
velocities as observed this is the kind
of theory we're looking for simple
capable of being visualized one that can
connect together the puzzling
observational facts that presently
confound understanding that's the end of
that quote
however this is a radical assault on the
beliefs of physicists because it puts a
searchlight on the fact that they have
no real explanation why matter has mass
it also shows that some of the cherished
physical constants are quantized
variables are throat and I quote for the
first time we have hard observational
evidence for the evolution of different
forms of organized extra galactic
objects the birth and maturing of
younger objects into older objects end
of quote
this is a completely different view of
the universe from the incoherent Big
Bang it Accords perfectly with the work
of plasma cosmologists who can explain
the beautiful spiral form of galaxies in
electrical terms up was aware of plasma
cosmology and the electric universe and
had come independently to much the same
conclusions concerning the Big Bang and
the need for a new cosmology plasma
cosmologists have an electrical Galaxie
model where current flows along the
spiral arms to the center of the galaxy
where it is stored and intermittently
released in Jets along the spin axis the
Centers of galaxies are simply explained
not as impossible black holes but as the
most concentrated form of stored
electromagnetic energy known in the
laboratory as a plasma focus and used
sometimes as a particle gun so quasars
are shot from the heart of their parent
galaxy by prodigious electromagnetic
forces of course mass and energy are
related by the well known equation
equals MC squared so the mass of the
galactic plasmoid at the centre of the
galaxy which may be less than the size
of our tiny solar system and composed of
relativistic charged particles can
produce the observed gravitational
effects of billions of stars there are
no black holes the electromagnetic jet
that connects the parent galaxy to its
baby quasar is the umbilical cord that
carries the electrical energy to
increase the mass of its embryonic
galaxies over time should we be
surprised that Arps view of the cosmos
has almost biological overtones in the
final paragraphs of quasars redshifts
and controversies we see the measure of
a real scientist as ARP writes of his
thoughts on matter generation in active
galactic nuclei and quantized redshift
it is still just a working hypothesis to
be discarded or modified as further
observations are made to test it in fact
it's major usefulness is probably only
to promote further observations yet
always the hope is that we have achieved
some fuller deeper understanding of the
universe we live in end of quote
the electric universe acknowledges the
brilliance and courage of Helton up like
Galileo his contribution to science will
be acknowledged for all time for
continuous updates on space news from
the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
