welcome to the thunderbolts picture of
the day review for the week of January
13 2014 this new feature will offer
brief summaries of the original articles
published every Monday Wednesday and
Friday at Thunderbolts dot info links to
the articles discussed may be found in
the About section of this video Monday
January 13 touching ground Comparative
mythologists Ren's van der Sluis
explores a recurring motif found in
nearly every creation myth around the
world the description of a sky that
rested much closer to the earth than it
does today
van der Sluis states the excessively low
height specified and many of these
accounts is striking bordering on the
absurd yet the team is solidly embedded
in a web of internally consistent ideas
van der Sluis elaborates the concept of
the proximate sky as a low hanging
ceiling morphs into another staple of
traditional cosmologies the notion that
the sky used to be a solid firmament the
transition of this to the present
condition is related in the ubiquitous
tales of the lifting of the sky or the
separation of sky and earth how might
modern science explain these ancient
descriptions of a sky so different from
ours today Wednesday January 15 star
forces picture of the day managing
editor Stephen Smith explains the
fundamental differences between the
standard model and the electric universe
interpretations of the interstellar
medium mainstream astronomers imagine
stars generating so-called winds that
shove gas and dust into a theoretical
bow shock however Smith explains instead
of treating the interstellar medium like
an inert medium the electric universe
model sees it as a magnetic electrically
charged material that is affected by the
plasma sheaths around stars known as
magneto spheres stellar plasma and the
interstellar medium are different
plasmas so they develop Langner plasma
sheets or double layers between them
stars are where khalaqtu k-- electric
discharges are focused so the double
layers form virtual cathodes smith also
notes NASA scientists astonishment over
the data from the Voyager 1 spacecraft
as an approach to interstellar space as
one mission scientist stated the models
that have been thought to predict what
should happen are all incorrect we
essentially have absolutely no reliable
roadmap of what to expect at this point
Friday January 17 why the lower corona
of the Sun is hotter than the
photosphere retired professor dr. Donald
Scott explores one of the most enduring
mysteries of solar physics while
mainstream scientists have attempted to
explain the mystery using magnetic
mechanisms dr. Scott suggests that
strictly electric forces occur within a
plasma region called a double layer
above the sun's surface he writes of all
the ideas offered up as being an
explanation of the extreme temperature
more than two million Kelvin measured in
the lower corona of our Sun the simplest
is an electrically accelerated
high-velocity positive ions are
colliding with relatively static ions
and neutral atoms in that location on
the mysterious nature of the sun's
temperature profile Scott writes it is
clear that the electric Sun model
straightforwardly predicts the existence
of the observed temperature profile and
demonstrates how it occurs if there were
no temperature discontinuity this would
pose a problem for the electric Sun
hypothesis to read these articles in
their entirety visit the links in the
About section of this video and stay
tuned for new Thunderbolts pictures of
the day every Monday Wednesday and
Friday at Thunderbolts dot info
