welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info with scientists around the world
puzzling over the astounding findings of
the rosetta mission to comet 67p yet
another comet discovery has left
astronomers searching for answers on
February 19th
NASA's Soho Observatory captured images
of the sungrazer comet Soho 2875 to the
surprise of comet scientists the
supposedly icy body did not disintegrate
on its close approach to the Sun and
actually brighten as it moved away from
the Sun indeed so-called sungrazer
comets that survived perihelion
extremely close to the Sun is a
long-standing puzzle for comet science
consider the case of Comet Lovejoy whose
perihelion brought it to just 140,000
kilometers above the sun's surface of
course astronomers never expected the
comet to survive its journey it after
nearly one hour in the intense radiant
energy of the Sun the comet emerged
intact
if comets are really the icy fluffy
bodies that conventional theory
describes and how can they withstand
such close approaches to the Sun in
reality observations going back
centuries reveals that a comet's
activity has little or nothing to do
with solar warming comets sometimes
flare or fragment at impossibly vast
distances from the Sun in 1976 the comet
West shocked the astronomy world when it
suddenly split into four fragments
without ever approaching closer than 30
million kilometers from the Sun in 2000
the comet limiter suddenly disintegrated
while still well over 100 million
kilometres from the Sun in contrast the
perihelion of the great comet of
December 1680 was less than 100 thousand
kilometers from the Sun but the comet
did not split noting these facts dr.
Carl Sagan and Andrew Ian wrote in the
book comet the gravitational tides of
the Sun or unequal heating cannot be
soul causes of the splitting of comets
we still do not know why comets split
in a paper published in the 1960s the
astronomer dr. Brian G Marsden wrote on
the anomaly of Comet fragmentation
discussing the Sun grazing comets he
noted that two instances the great comet
of 1882 and the comet IKEA's Seki in
1965 appeared to split apart at their
farthest distance from the Sun while
beyond the orbit of Neptune and far
above the ecliptic plane moreover the
relative velocity of their separation
was far greater than could possibly be
due to solar heating Marsden wrote
although most of the Comets observed to
split have done so for no obvious reason
one really does require an explanation
when the velocity of separation is some
20% of the velocity of the comet itself
a collision with some asteroid illogic
at 200 au from the Sun and 100 au above
the ecliptic plane even though would
only have to happen once is scarcely
worthy of serious consideration thus
Carl Sagan and Andrew Ian wrote in 1985
that the problem of comet fragmentation
is quote left unsolved in recent decades
it has only become more evident that
cometary activity including comet
fragmentation cannot be due to solar
warming or gravitational forces rather
the electric comet theory says that
comets are rocky bodies that were
electrically machined from planets and
moons the most dramatic comet displays
will typically involve highly elliptical
orbits during its time in the outer
reaches of the solar system the comet
will acquire a negative charge with
respect to the Sun as it approaches the
inner limits of its orbit accelerating
through the sun's weak electric field it
will begin to discharge the plasma
surrounding it
producing the familiar bright coma and
tail comet Jets are electric discharges
to the nucleus the Jets electrically
machine the comet's surface in a process
similar to the industrial process known
as spark discharge machining a critical
prediction of this theory appears to
have recently been fulfilled by the
Rosetta mission
Rosetta's ion and electron sensor has
measured surprisingly high densities of
Tehran's close to the comet nucleus the
electrical nature of comets explains the
remarkable effects we've observed when
comets have approached planets let us
look back to the summer of 1994 when the
comet shoemaker-levy 9 approached the
planet Jupiter at the time astronomers
predicted that the encounter would be as
trivial as pebbles falling into an ocean
however the energetic effects of the
comet fragments were astronomically
greater than anything comet scientists
had anticipated as reported by sky and
telescope when fragment a hit the giant
planet it threw up a fireball so
unexpectedly bright that it seemed to
knock the world's astronomical community
off its feet immediately after the
impact of comet fragment a the telescope
detected unusual and energetic auroral
activity radiation belts were disrupted
and were unexpectedly bright x-ray
emissions at the time of impact and yet
another mystery was never explained
satisfactorily early impact events were
hidden from the earth behind Jupiter's
limb
however the Galileo spacecraft was
positioned 150 million miles away from
Jupiter at an angle that gave it a
ringside seat for these events but
earth-based observatories saw some of
the impacts start at the same time
Galileo did reminiscent of the advanced
electrical flash prior to the impact of
a copper projectile into the comet
Tempel 1 mission scientists said at the
time in effect we are seeing something
we didn't think we had any right to see
it seems clear that something was
happening high enough to be seen beyond
the curve of the planet radio
astronomers had expected radio emissions
from Jupiter at high frequencies to drop
because dust from shoemaker-levy 9
fragments would absorb electrons from
the radiation belts for the electrons
emit synchrotron radiation instead
observers were surprised to find that
emissions around 2.3 gigahertz rose by
20 to 30 percent
Michael client of JPL said never in 23
years of Jupiter observations have we
seen such a rapid and intense increase
in radio emission extra electrons were
supplied by a source which is a mystery
a similar event was seen recently with a
comet siding spring fateful encounter
with Mars the MAVEN spacecraft measured
the effects on the Martian atmosphere of
sighting Springs fly by within about
87,000 miles according to a NASA report
debris from the comet added a temporary
and very strong layer of ions to the
ionosphere the electrically charged
layer high above Mars it is more clear
than ever that comets do not behave like
icy bodies moving through an
electrically inert vacuum until
institutional science seriously
considers the electrical theory of
comets the list of Comet mysteries will
continue to grow for continuous updates
on space news from the electric universe
stay tuned to Thunderbolts dot info
