I think as many of you know a couple of
years ago three maybe three years ago I
was able to fortunate enough to be able
to develop a model a mathematical
physical description of the structure of
what berkland current should look like
has to look like if the assumptions that
led to the model are correct whenever we
talked about force free fields and
things like that if all that stuff is
right then I know that mathematically my
model is correct what we don't know is
does that model does are the outputs
what you think you're seeing does it
correspond to reality I have a quote
here from another electrical engineer
who I very much admire and his name is
dr. William Hughes he passed away and I
think 2008 something like that was head
of department in electrical engineering
it I think in University in South Dakota
and I think Oklahoma but his quote is
all such models like mine
our only models of reality rather than
reality itself the final arbiter of the
value of any hypothesis is and always
will be experimental evidence numbers
does it jibe or you it does your models
suggest any predictions and if it does
go see if they if they're born born out
so that's what I've been doing for the
last couple of years is to look for
evidence of what the look at the
berkland current model
says and so let's see if I can get this
to go there it is like what I've
entitled my talk is this morning is the
next step and what it is that next step
is simply to get some new evidence that
my model predicts reality and you've
you've seen some evidence of that in the
last couple of years yeah last night Jim
Ryder presented a picture much like this
one of the the galaxies the Galactic web
the Galactic Network and all the
galaxies as far as we can tell are
connected and the question is what are
they connected by and I submit they're
probably connected by berkland currents
well if they are then there should be
evidence of Scott's model in what we
observe well what kind of evidence can
that be
well my model of the berkland current
has several different properties but the
the most important one really is that
the berkland current and I've put that
in in emphasis font is a structure that
is a collection of hollow
counter-rotating concentric cylinders
some of you have seen the example of the
counter-rotating props on a ship that's
exactly what the berkland current
according to what my work came out with
should look like so if a berkland
current impinges on something like the
North Pole of a planet or a galaxy or
wherever there should be some sort of
evidence of things going in different
directions and the question is are there
and also the final note on there on that
slide is that in berkland currents
electrical current will spiral in many
different ways it spirals this way and
it spirals back at you this way
and current can go in both directions
there is a preferred direction and I
think Jerry Pollock not last night but a
couple of times ago I think Jerry said
that that water bridge is at least it
shows evidence of twisting and it shows
evidence of current going in both
directions more easily in one than in
the other but both directions that's the
kind of evidence that I'm looking for to
see that my model is right
well what I'm about to show you is a
video that was produced by the
thunderbolts group
Michael Goodspeed and these guys and it
brings I know that many of you have seen
that already but for all anybody here
who is new I think in a few minutes just
a couple of minutes it will summarize
everything I know
up till now as to the supporting
evidence for this this model of mine
welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info at the recent Thunderbolts project
Conference of teen paths of discovery
professor Donald Scott presented new
groundbreaking evidence of the
electromagnetic connection between the
Earth and the Sun the electric universe
theory states as the Sun is in essence
an electrical discharge phenomenon
powered by electric currents flowing
along the arm at the galaxies electrical
circuitry connects the Sun and all
planets including the earth driving
climate weather and Earth's Aurora's the
tell-tale sign of berkland currents at
the poles of planets
counter rotational motions in
atmospheric phenomena
today dr. Scott discusses the new visual
evidence that Birdland currents from the
Sun are the cause of Earth's Aurora's
the Earth's Sun connection which of
course is I think the primary basic
foundational idea of the electric
universe at least historically that this
marvelous investigator a region
investigator Kristian Birkeland
literally put his life in danger to go
out on the North slopes of Norway in in
the Norwegian winter and take
measurements out there his idea was of
course the theorem were caused
electrically after a number of them when
he did this is around 1902 1903 I think
the idea of an electron had just been
postulated two or three years earlier so
it was not a very it's the word
ubiquitous idea that these electrons
were flying around and he was that his
burglar who was roundly chastised by the
astronomical community it's ridiculous
no none of these corpuscles I guess
berkland called them and also other
investigators call it call them
corpuscles as it's well but they could
never make it to hold 93 million miles
in the Sun of the earth it's ludicrous
idea and of course later on to make the
long story short after world war ii and
we sent rockets up into the upper
atmosphere we found that indeed that's
exactly what what was going on and
Sidney Chapman the prime what should I
say antagonist still a berkland was
certainly shown to be all wet so from
there it went on I got into the active
very late just a few years ago my
contribution really was I completed the
derivation of a mathematical physical
model of a berkland current what would
this thing look like at NASA now calls
them magnetic flux ropes and actually
Hannes Alfven was the guy who coined
that phrase I don't really like it very
much because it kind of obfuscates the
the idea that it's electrical all these
these folks nowadays
NASA professional astronomers they are
okay with the word magnetic that's fine
they kind of pull that out of there and
the bottle is so like a genie and oh if
they there's something they don't notice
that was most due to a magnetic field
you hear ludicrous things like well
there was a lump of magnetic field
because that they don't still like to
use the word electric although they're
coming around even on that one but
anyway this model that I I derive
finished the derivation of it this
derivation was really started by fella
by the name of Lundqvist in 1950 but it
was in his paper was very incomplete Oh
coefficients were not evaluated and the
structure those equations implied was
not discussed and anyway the one of the
primary properties of that model is this
idea of counter rotation if you think
about a steel rod then you surround it
with a a pipe a hollow pipe and then
surround that pipe with a bigger pipe
and then yet surround that whole thing
with a bigger pipe to keep on doing this
for a number which I say pipes a number
of radii and have each one of those
pipes pick one of the pipes the the pipe
above it and the pipe below it would be
going in the opposite rotational
direction from its rotation so that's
what I mean by counter rotation sort of
if anybody's familiar with
counter-rotating propellers on a ship
that's exactly the way the tail shafts
would work but anyway that's that's what
five model at least came out with is
that should be counter rotation and most
people in well anybody who's interested
in the electric universe I think
realizes that water
one and a half conferences ago I
presented a I thought a mind-blowing
video my NASA video showing exactly that
happening at the North Pole of Saturn
one of the things that kind of bugs me a
little bit is that astronomers are
reluctantly
agreeable to talking about berkland
currents when it comes to the earth even
there they're trying to call him some by
some different names I favor an article
you there what in the world is this guy
talking about he's talking about a
berkland current he didn't call it that
I think maybe they are a little bit
ashamed of the shabby treatment that
berkland got from professional
astronomers but anyway this is video
from NASA was was just mind-blowing
thing and this at this past comfort just
last week's conference I was fortunate
enough to find another NASA video this
time of the planet Jupiter
everybody's a big brother planet here
and sure enough just blatantly there was
these counter-rotating cylindrical I
mean when you looked at them down at
them like the North Pole Jupiter their
circular of course please remember this
we will see I'll be referring back to
this picture and a man's first saw the
video and actually counted or tried to
count the number of these
counter-rotating concentric cylinders
and I got up to 15 before I ran out of
steam and then when you got 15 different
counter rotating cylinders that mean the
pesticides really it's a lot of counter
rotation and then I thought about well
you know what about the earth I mean
everybody knows that the berkland
currents do power the Earth's Aurora is
there any evidence of counter rotation
there's I guess I proudly the internet
and I came upon several people who had
tried to video the Aurora most of them
didn't know what they were looking for
most everybody was looked at it says oh
isn't it beautiful it's because marble
is always gorgeous unlike me they were
not looking necessarily for evidence of
counter rotation of these hollow
cylinders until I came up on one
polishing fellow
I guess his nice bike ethnicity his name
is I think my check an ERCP and he had a
fantastically high risen resolution
video camera placed it on a very firm
tripod and the north tip of Scotland he
took these
this this video and I just I just
marveled at it and I if you asked my
opinion does it show counter-rotation
I would quickly answer you betcha
especially right at the opening of that
video and in the closing scenes it is
undeniable in my opinion in this
singularly and my one man's opinion
it is obvious that there is
counter-rotation going on there there's
also evidence of course that they do
occur and possibly at least on Neptune
and Uranus not particularly so mercury
for several reasons one of the what's
required is to have we have the planet
having a reasonable magnetic geomagnetic
field by christos Jupiter has one in
Spain so that's why I think of all the
planets the Jupiter's most obviously on
the receiving end of a berkland turn so
that's where we or at least I am at this
point and I conclude from that that we
now have evidence that several planets
have Aurora's that are likely created by
berkland currents feeding electric
charges into their poles the Sun's
heliosphere is probably inside of an
interstellar berkland current we're not
sure about that yet but those as Jim
Ryder said last night that that evidence
coming back through ibex showing the
tails on the heliosphere those tails may
indeed be at least remnants of a
berkland current we don't know but they
are we get to the nitty-gritty
we've postulated the idea I have a lot
of people have that galaxies are also
connected by berkland currents and
seeing the evidence of counter rotation
in galaxies would indeed be the next
step and that's why I called this little
talk this morning the next step so the
question is do we see it
any observation of counter-rotating
bands of stars in a galaxy would be
difficult for astronomers to explain
reason I say that is think of it
yourself
are there any thermodynamic or
hydrodynamic fluid dynamic causes for
counter rotation there's plenty of
causes of rotation there's Coriolis
effect and all that sort of thing
that's all in one direction but what can
cause things inside of one another to
rotate in opposite directions the answer
is as far as I know one berkland
currents if you come up with another one
let me know I will make sure that I
don't say that again but I think that's
correct until a few years ago there was
only one galaxy that's M 64 M Messier
and the Messier Calend a catalog number
64 was described as exhibiting any kind
of counter rotation
that's what M 64 looks like and in 1992
there was an Australian astronomer who
announced that they had found evidence
that the area within the dust Lane of M
64 was counter-rotating from the outer
spiral that was explosive
a lot of people didn't believe it that
was must be wrong
eventually that just sort of quieted
down and nobody said anything else Vera
Rubin the famous astronomer I think was
Harvard College Observatory I think I'm
mature finally came up and said yes she
saw she observed that counter rotation
too and the only possible explanation
astronomers had for this was a collision
with another galaxy
remember astronomers have not one arm
tied behind their back they've got one
arm and and four fingers tied behind
their back they only have one tool
gravity it attracts what what does when
you attract pretty good you get
collisions so collisions must be
the cause of everything also remember
that gravity does not mean inherent spin
gravity means crash together nothing
about gravity says it should spin as it
comes in nothing so but they were sort
of between a rock and a hard place
and finally there was this paper in 1996
and if you look very carefully I don't
know if you can see it the the authors
there are fella by the name of kiken
Fisher and I called Merrifield will hear
mera field in a couple of slides from
now talk about this and what he said if
I can I think I have a quote from that
paper yeah he said that he was in
response to this announcement by Bromley
as the Australian guy that said that
this thing was counter-rotating he said
that well alright the goal of the
present study has been to search for the
presence of counter-rotating stars no
new cases of stellar counter-rotation
have been found no more than
approximately 5% of the disk stars in
our sample galaxies are counter-rotating
with 95% confidence with 95% confidence
we can say that no more than 10% of
galaxies contain detectable
counter-rotating stellar disks galaxy
mergers provide the most obvious
explanation crashing together because
that's the only Omega so astronomers
have only one tool available to explain
new observations collisions and mergers
and I'm gonna show you a clip I think
it's the next slide is say another video
clip of Merrifield himself talking about
this and I want you to listen very
carefully he's he's very British and he
would speak very very fast so
one of the things he said a couple of
things he says I think you should grab
ahold of and hang your hat on number one
he says that 90% of space is empty it's
not 99 as Jim said last night 99
I remember 99 percent Jim said 99.99%
his plasma and plasma is not empty
that's the reason they laughed at
berkland right I can't put that stuff
across through an empty space sure he
can because it's all full of plasma also
he suggests that counter-rotating stars
are caused by at the very end of his
talk hot gas means plasma pouring into a
galaxy from some unknown source and in
the opposite direction from the way the
galaxy is rotating all right and that's
how you get the counter-rotation doesn't
say where the hot gas comes from or why
it should what why it should cause
counter rotation of stars anyway here's
the video so if you look in the disk of
the Milky Way all the stars go around
the same way it's kind of a one-way
system everything's going around in the
same direction in almost every galaxy
you look at that's what you find this
one is kind of unique because it's
actually exactly 50/50 as half a stars
going one way half the Stars going the
other way we're in the Virgo cluster so
the NIR is big cluster of galaxies it's
one of these galaxies called a
lenticular galaxy it was like a lens or
an s0 galaxy so it's one of these things
which has a disk which we clearly see
more or less edge on which is why it's
very skinny like this but doesn't have
spiral arms or any other features we
typically associate with the spiral
galaxies the original discovery was
something that Vera Rubin and her
collaborators discovered in the early
1990s she was doing a big study of all
the galaxies in the Virgo cluster what
they were doing in their survey is they
were taking things called long slit
spectra so basically they were taking
and putting a slit of a spectrograph
along the galaxies and measuring spectra
all along that slit and what you expect
to find for a galaxy like this is you
expect to see absorption lines due to
the various chem
the stars are made of but the absorption
lines are all bumper shifted a bit that
some of them are shifted towards the red
end of the spectrum which means that
those stars are moving away from you
some are shifted towards the blue end of
the spectrum so that means those stars
are moving towards you so what you
expect to see in a galaxy like that if
it's an edge on disk is either rotating
one way or the other so what you'd
expect is all the stars on one side are
red shifted and all the stars on the
other side a blue shifted or vice versa
depending on which way it's rotating so
we can expect to find is that the dark
bands for example here's one of these
dark bands you'd expect it to be shifted
slightly towards the blue end of the
spectrum at one end and shifted slightly
towards the red end of the spectrum on
the other side so you'd expect to see a
kind of an S shape in there and what you
actually see is not these S shapes but
if you look closely you can see there's
one going that way there's one going
that way as well so it's kind of an X
shape and that means that as well as the
disk rotating one way which is what
gives you this signature here the disk
is also rotating the other way which
gives you this signature here and
because those lines are kind of roughly
equal strength what you can sort of
infer from that is that this is a very
strange disk in the half the stars are
going around one way and half the stars
are going around the other way the
obvious first question is well don't the
stars just bash into each other if
they're doing that what you got bear in
mind is that a galaxy is mostly empty
space so again if we come back to the
Milky Way for a second if you made the
Sun this big then the next nearest star
would be about 50 or 60 kilometers away
so that means that really you've got one
lot of empty space and another lot of
empty space with a few stars dotted
around in it
the simplest idea but sort of most
obvious thing to think of is well maybe
the way you make a galaxy like that has
these two town of contra-rotating this
because you just have one normal dislike
this and another normal dose like this
and they just crash into each other and
they end up merging to form one of these
systems aware of the Stars go one way
half to go the other way unfortunately
that doesn't work because what you find
is if you start doing simulations of
crashing disks into each other these as
soon as you start smashing them into
each other that destroys the disk
structure and actually you are not
forming a thing like an elliptical
galaxy so that's where we came in one of
the things that's happened since their
Aruban first discovered this galaxy is
that we've got much better at actually
analyzing the properties of spectra and
in particular we can look at the
strength of different absorption lines
in spectra and use that to figure things
out about the properties of the stars
that that populate
maydel so that's what we did we took
some more very very deep spectra of this
particular galaxy and what we found is
that the absorption lines in one still a
population are different from the
absorption lines or the stars going
around the other way and in particular
those hydrogen lines are much stronger
in one of the disks than they are in the
other from which we can infer that that
disk has to be much younger than the
stars are going around the other way
what we were able to show is that
actually the dew populations have to be
different one of them is younger than
the other and that's exactly what you'd
expect if an old disc formed and then
gas started flowing in orbiting the
other direction which would then form a
second generation of stars which would
seem younger than the stars that were
already there so probably the likely
scenario here is this was a disc
galaxies that formed formed with a whole
bunch of stars all orbiting around one
way that's a little bit of gas left over
from the stars that are orbiting that
way later in its life gas thought is
flowing in in the other directions are
rotating around the other direction the
first thing that happens is that any gas
that's coming around this way will bash
into gas that's going around the other
way because gas unlike stars is very
collisional so actually it'll smack into
it that'll all fall into the middle what
you know sort of sweep up what guess
there wasn't leftover from the first
generation then if you keep feeding in
gas in that direction you'll form a new
disk of gas which is rotating in the
opposite directions of the stars and
then over time that new disk of gas will
start forming stars of its own and
eventually it'll use up all the gas and
form a second stellar disc that rotates
in the opposite direction I think
probably the reason why this was the
first one that was discovered is that
when you do end up with exactly half the
stars going either way it's very easy to
find if it were only like 10% you might
not notice so actually you could have
you know all the stars and you'd analyze
it and you wouldn't notice the fact that
there's a small fraction that seemed to
be going around the other way if the
disks were very different sizes so if
there were a tiny little disk in the
middle going around one way and most of
the stars going the other way
you might not notice that either so
probably you know this was the first one
that was discovered because it's the
most blatant example subsequently we now
know there's probably at least half a
dozen other galaxies where there's at
least some stars going around one way
and some going around the other way so
it's not a unique system it does happen
from time to time but of course that's
half a dozen now are the many what tens
of thousands of galaxies are those kind
of sizes that we know about so it
clearly whatever the process is that
makes this happen that's very unusual
it's not the common way of making the
galaxy wrong
it's probably the way most galaxies are
made and the fact that he hasn't found
any is probably indicative of the fact
that he hasn't really looked very hard
so if you don't want to see something
you probably aren't going to expend a
lot of time or effort looking for it and
it's very difficult to explain this
stuff you notice he didn't say well this
hot gas was coming from and the idea
that no the space and gal inter-galactic
space is is empty it's wrong it's just
plain wrong
they also the idea that the hydrogen
he's quite good inspector octopus I mean
he the idea that he found that the
hydrogen was on the outside of that
that's galaxies hydrogen rich stars is
probably correct but for anybody who's
looked at the work of Guren Markland
there's a thing called Markland
convection Markland is a Swedish
engineer scientists physicists I guess
and he studied this and discovered that
in berkland currents that the elements
will distribute themselves radially in
proportion to their ionization potential
so sort of I guess to some people at
least anti intuitively counter
intuitively it sounded thing what we
find is that iron and carbon find
themselves at the middle of the galaxies
of the berkland current and if the
berkland card is feeding the galaxies
would be at the center of the galaxy and
the farther out you get I have a list of
them here's some place
the the oh yeah the list is iron sulfur
carbon nitrogen oxygen helium hydrogen
and those last two are very difficult
believe it or not to ionize I guess
because they have very few electrons to
ionize but it's easy to ionize iron and
so you find iron at the center of this
thing
so his discovery that there is indeed
hydrogen-rich a band of hydrogen-rich
stars on the outer edge is again
confirmation that this thing is a
berkland current because Markland
predicted and saw that hydrogen goes to
the outside it has nothing to do with
the age of the stars the reason he says
there young stars and that formed last
that's the stoppers I think in correct
stellar model there's nothing that says
that a hydrogen rich star has to be
younger than a carbon-rich star so it's
it was it was kind of interesting I
thought that he's of course his
explanation of this stuff but when we
tried it it doesn't work so the only
thing left is gas comes from someplace
the little green people come and pour it
in and but they really have no
explanation for this it's kind of like
what Jim said last night here is that
I'd like you to make sure you understand
what what's going on here let's see if I
can if I can do this yeah what everyone
got the wrong thing I just wanted well
I'm playing around with this I shouldn't
the the the the X shape that you see
there the star grouping that's in
magenta or purple is if you notice very
carefully what you what we got plotted
here the upper half of that plot is
where the light is longer wavelength
this is the wavelength is is vertical
and it's flooded if you can read it it
says velocity in kilometers per second
so they're they're saying that the
redshift is proportional to velocity
that doesn't that doesn't contradict
Halton ARP at all ARP is perfectly
willing to say that redshift can be
caused by recessional velocity it's not
the only way to form redshift but it is
one of the ways so they're right in this
case and so they on the upper left
corner of that picture what you are
our redshifted and the higher up you go
the more redshifted stars each star is a
point on that diagram and so and then
you look over and they on the right side
you see oh yeah but there's another
bunch of guys out there that are
blue-shifted
and so I'm sorry yeah that the other
ones are also red shifted and they're on
the other side of the galaxy and
therefore they're going away and these
guys are going away from you and then
when you come down through the middle
the middle is when you're looking at the
center of the galaxy and stars are just
going this way or that way and they're
not coming forward toward you were away
from you so there's no redshift and as
you get to the bottom of the diagram you
can see that they're ours that's blue
shift the the wavelength is less the
velocity and the recessional velocity is
is less so what it's notice one another
thing on the on the compare the purple
curve at the upper left to the black
curve at the upper right and you notice
that the purple curve extends farther it
is it has a higher redshift than the
other one then the black woman at the
upper right hand corner and it doesn't
the it extends farther out that he the
distance east to the north distance so
it goes faster and it's farther out so
that shows yes that the outer ring of
that galaxy is the one that's plotted in
purple do you follow me and the bottom
diagram is just dispersion of the data
but anyway see if I can continue on
that's what I just said
so Muirfield explanation of this was
right on spot-on
he knows what he's talking about when it
comes to spectroscopy it just he doesn't
really analyze it I think
well this is and any who have seen me
talk here before that's a typical
diagram that I always put up what a
berkland current looks like and you can
see the counter rotation and the the
shading the salmon color very dense in
the middle and the outer the middle ring
is a little less denser than the outer
ring it's even less dense it indicates
that there is there's collection of
matter at various discreet radius values
and what the the rest of this going here
the slide shows is that if you analyze
this in in great detail you will find
that it it is very probable to see in a
situation like this something that looks
like spirals spiraling inward not just
going around but spiraling inward I
submit those are almost optical
illusions those spirals exist the shape
exists but if you notice the little tiny
black arrows that form those spirals
some of the stuff is going in one
direction and some of the matter is
going in the opposite direction so those
spirals are not spiraling in there
they're like tattoos if you will on them
on the face of the galaxy well that's
not a very important point but it's a
it's a point ok I'm gonna go I think
fairly rapidly through the next few
slides these are all galaxies which have
been reported as showing
counter-rotation NGC 3628 contains a
band of gas plasma that counter rotates
with respect to the Stars and it looks
just I think like a berkland current but
it it is perhaps caused by a berkland
cart it's another 130 608
the maximum rotation velocity of the
inner core was low but it's going the
opposite direction from the outer parts
of this of the group of the galaxy
here's another one 57:19 so we've
discovered in the last I think about 15
years about seven of these seconds seven
or eight of them which are proven
measured counter rotational galaxies oh
well here's the previous one I think it
was reported that only way the excuse
was that for 57:19 which is this one
it's the galaxy on the left of course it
has been disturbed perturbed by its
neighboring galaxies 57:13 that's the
one on the right now I submit to you
that that's a stretch those galaxies are
light-years apart they're not the same
kind of galaxies and they're not in the
same plane of rotation such that one can
be going one way when the one is this
way and one is this way it's very
unlikely that those two guys are in
communication with each other except
maybe a berkland current that might
twist through there but one is not I
don't say it's it's a tough sales pitch
to tell me that this guy is affecting
that guy directly and causing stars to
go backwards in the other galaxies I
just don't believe it another one was
reported have counter-rotating rings of
both plasma and stars I see 719 3595
again all of these are definitely
measured counter-rotation
galaxies 4550 well that's the one that
you can see those vary if you look
carefully you can see some of those
things that look like spirals the dark
lanes I don't think those are really
indicative of motion I think you're
indicative of a structure
that's inherent in the berkland current
that's formed this um another thing to
keep in mind I don't know whether I have
a slide on it or not but who says that
berkland currents can't yeah this is the
one that Muirfield talked about who says
that berkland currents can't get weaker
with age they can and so perhaps if you
think of blong the lines of what Halton
Arps it how these things are ejected
from mother galaxies as they age they
may mature their umbilical cords make
because that's a sort of gross way to
put it but that's what a berkland
current is probably like to a galaxy and
here's a I think a beautiful shot this
was taken by an acquaintance of mine I
wouldn't say a friend but acquaintance
said that about lemon Observatory in
Tucson in Oro Valley if you look at this
thing it's almost unmistakably the shape
of a berkland current it has contains
several different rings and there
counter-rotating yes by Adam and a blog
if you just keep your eyes on that
picture and compare it with the picture
of a berkland current that tony peratt
gave me we superimpose the two what do
you think
so it's I think it's fairly certainly
what we're looking at here is a shape at
least of a berkland current I just want
to make sure I say everything that I
want to say yep yeah what about it
yeah well anyway many galaxies have been
shown to contain the counter-rotating
stars many don't this is what I was
leading up to before that they the
berkland currents can change with time
and therefore these structures can
change with time but of course over
millennial time over astronomical time
and as I say it's even easier not to
look for something you don't want to
find so anyway closer to home sort of
along the lines of what Gerry was
talking about last night we consider the
idea of a hurricane
now I've long laughed at the fact you
probably saw me chuckle and howl at the
NASA description of that Saturn
hurricane the counter rotation at the
top of Saturn is North Pole a hurricane
at the North Pole you got to be kidding
hurricanes eat hot air from warm water
that's the reason that when hurricanes
come ashore they fall apart so that's
not a hurricane I said also it's locked
in position at the North Pole of Saturn
we know that hurricanes move around like
crazy so there's a couple of reasons for
not calling that a hurt hurricane but
mainstream science claims that
hurricanes rotate because of the
Coriolis effect you know you take two
guys on a on a merry-go-round and one
has a basketball and he throws it
directly at the other guy but by the
time the basketball gets there the other
guy has moved and can't catch the ball
if you're a if you're a marksman and you
want to shoot at the enemy airplane or
something you lead it you don't shoot it
where the enemy is you shoot it where
he's gonna be when the bullet gets there
that's the Coriolis effect but the
mechanism cannot produce counter
rotation even if Coriolis is the reason
that hurricanes rotate on earth it the
Coriolis cannot produce counter rotation
and that's all right because hurricanes
on earth don't show counter rotation or
do they I got really shocked when I saw
the next slide this is a hurricane I
should know the name of this it perhaps
it's on the slide but it's a fairly
recent one there's in the foreground as
the coast of South America and this is a
slice taken through the hurricane and
what you will notice is when I start
this up this is a video is that the
inner regions of the hurricane go the
way we normally think hurricanes in the
northern hemisphere do they rotate
anti-clockwise counterclockwise the
famous northeasters on the coast of
Maine always come in from the Northeast
because they're rotating around storms
that are coming up the coast and those
are counter clockwise rotations but if
you look at the outer regions like out
here and out here when this thing starts
this middle guy is going to be going
around counterclockwise but if you look
out here all of a sudden you realize
these guys are moving clockwise
see the clockwise movement here and out
here it'll happen again when it gets
closer they take another shot of it
closer to the United States it can you
notice these clouds sweeping up
that may be the end of it I'm not sure
no one more okay if there's plenty of
kind of rotation in downand is in this
right hand area anyway that's not it set
me back kinda edgy they do kind of
rotate and then I set back with a glass
of wine and said does that mean the
astronomers are right hell no it means
that this hurricane may be fed
electrically as well as by hot air from
the ocean below and it may well be that
a small berkland like current is coming
down on the top of this storm forming
that shape
we know that electrical currents from
space power thunderstorms the famous
elves and sprites and when is it blue
nuns or something and what they clearly
there's a circuit that comes right down
from space through into thunderstorms
that power those and give those
thunderstorms the electric charge that
Jerry was talking about last night so
red sprites recently photographed into a
thunderstorm and so maybe this guy who
said it was a hurricane and Saturn's
North Pole was correct but he didn't
know how hurricanes work that hurricane
has made strictly from there's no hot
ocean at Saturn's North Pole believe me
but he didn't know where that hurricane
was getting his power or its form anyway
tornadoes often exhibit that sort of
concentric cylinder look and I was
talking to somebody yesterday who said
that they knew a friend I think who had
looked at one of these guys straight up
the barrel and did indeed see
counter-rotation and a light in the
middle of it the light of course being
probably electrical like lightning the
main blast of current coming down the
middle of it and if I would give my eyes
teeth to come to get that thing to be a
video if it turns out to be
you know in counter-rotation then I
would be very happy by the way one way
when we saw that picture of the North
Pole of Jupiter and there were 15 of
these things counter-rotating that can
be and certainly is the way of berkland
current works but it can be the
explanation for what puzzles Merrifield
as to why these guys don't hit into each
other it's because there are in the case
of Jupiter 15 separate concentric
racetracks
and the runners are going in opposite
directions on each one of these tracks
so the stars are not colliding unless
you get some guide like happens here in
Arizona go the wrong way in the wrong
direction on highway if if they stake in
their right lanes there can be all sorts
of indoor reaction of counter rotation
and with no collisions at all oh by the
way another one thing he said which is
wrong all plasmas are collisional no
that's right right the the corona of the
Sun is not the collisional plasma
okay here's a picture the fellow I felt
my name last name is Gould are you here
in the audience tonight
this morning he dedicated he you type
and eats wrote me an email and said Don
there's a website called null school
dotnet and he learned about it from Ben
Davidson and it's it's a I think it's an
excellent site and it shows counter
rotation you can look here at the course
the South Pole of the earth and you can
see the counter rotation that's going on
notice it's moving very slowly but what
you're looking at are the ocean currents
and so the if I can see you here the
that's that's the equator goes around
there and so all of this stuff inside
here is in the southern hemisphere
anything outside of that line is
northern hemisphere but there's a
tremendous amount of counter rotation
where does it come from well I know it's
not Coriolis this Coriolis can't do that
so here's a again this is a little video
of that null school net site and you can
see again there's those are the ocean
currents they're not it's not so
obviously counter rotation at that point
but if you go if you go down to the
lower left like this is a video I can't
do it in life you get this control and
the height there's a 10 hecto Pascal's I
hectopascal it's like a millibar I think
so if you go way up in the atmosphere
way high up see any counter rotation you
betcha
and there's also well see in a second
there is a diatom instability there just
off the south tip of tasmania and one of
those if you go down deeper into the
atmosphere the circularity begins to
lose its beautiful symmetry and it
begins to get crunched and smooshed and
in fact you go down deeper and deeper
and the land masses begin to interrupt
those those flows which tells me one
thing the counter rotation the beautiful
circularity comes from outside not
inside the earth there's nothing to do
with stuff going around inside the this
molten center of the earth or whatever's
there empty service or whatever's in
there the circularity I maintain points
when you get down on the surface it's
almost impossible to see anything and it
doesn't move very much but if again if
you go out to that 10 Mille bar height
there's what you see and you under
feeding and you see the this a little
see that good thing right
that's as Tasmania off the south coast
of Australia and right there there's a
counterclockwise flow it's sort of it's
a daikatana instability between this
clockwise and this counterclockwise flow
anyway that's the evidence that I have
at this point and I think I'm confident
that if astronomers are willing to look
for more counter rotation in galaxies
they will find it let's see if this
observation of counter rotation is two
more bricks in the wall of evidence and
scientists who claim that electricity
doesn't do anything will live to eat
their words perhaps some of you know
this fellow and he was here and this is
what he said yes yes we know there's
electricity in space but it doesn't do
anything
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
