need to know what my topic will be a day
you might have guessed it's Astro
mathematics and I can tell you that I'm
not a proponent of Astro mathematics my
purpose today is to reveal to you some
of the methods of this very secret craft
now the first thing I'd like to tell you
is that there are different types of big
height black holes and big bangs
there are actually four types of black
holes that are alleged and there are
three types of big bangs that are ledges
whenever you hear a proponent of black
holes and big bangs talking to you about
them do they ever tell you which black
hole in which beg bang never they never
do
so you left guessing provided of course
you know that there are four different
types of black holes and three different
types of big banks to begin with if you
don't but whether you're in a real be
disadvantaged further now there's a
thing here that a couple of things here
that I'd like to quote from lineweaver
and Davis which was published in
Scientific American in 2005 they're tell
us here that the space between the
galaxies is expanding okay this the Big
Bang happened everywhere in the room in
which you are reading this article in a
spot just to the left of Alpha Centauri
everywhere
thus we can conceive of the early
universe as a pile of overlapping
grapefruits that stretches infinitely in
all directions correspondingly the idea
that the Big Bang was small is
misleading the totality of space might
be infinite well Weinberg Steven
Weinberg is a well-known physicist and
he tells us that all spaces in this
context may be either infinite universe
or a finite universe so they're telling
us what Big Bang well they put all
together at once so if you're in doubt
make altogether the case so if you
always guess now they're talking about
grapefruit
so is it fruit I thought to myself we
thought it's they're telling us it's
grapefruit and all along we thought it
was fruit in general so we must have
made a mistake
why nominally name this the pH C B this
is the principle of hedging cosmological
bets
now let's have a look here at the
defining characteristics of black holes
and big bangs I put five up there
they've quite generic all types of black
holes have mentioned there are four
types they all share these
characteristics and the three types of
BIGBANG's that are alleged have this
characteristic let's compare them
they're very simple all black hole
universes are spatially infinite they're
eternal verities they're static or
stationary they contain only one mass
they are not expanding and they're
either asymptotically flat or
asymptotically curved that might sound a
little hairy theory but it doesn't
really matter if you don't know if you
know of an asymptote with a hyper for
example the hyperbola against the x and
y axis that's all it is now when we
compare this to all the alleged Big Bang
universes we find that the Big Bang
universes are either spatially infinite
in one case or sorry spatially finite in
one case or spatially infant in two
different cases well it doesn't match
the black hole characteristic then
they're of a finite age that means the
non static or non station they tell us
now that they're about 13.8 billion
years it's crept up every now and then
from the bits of increments 13.8 billion
well the black hole universe is eternal
the Big Bang universe is contained
radiation and many masses there
allegedly expanding and they're not
asymptotically anything so how can you
have a black hole universe in a Big Bang
universe when they're diametrically
opposed by very definition you can't but
they do they put them all together and
they never tell you which ones they're
putting together now another point here
is the Big Bang universe is from my
previous slide you might have seen or
characterized by K values I'll call them
k curvatures there's three types minus
one zero or one well we come to this one
again we see no alleged Big Bang
knowledge black hole universe has a big
bang knowledge black hole universe has a
big benkei curvature then or even the
same types of universes so but they
still put them together so we see that
black hole universes and Big Bang
universe are mutually exclusive they
can't coexist even by the very theory
that these people use
yet they put them together and construct
multiple black holes in a Big Bang
universe they never specify which Big
Bang universe and they never tell you
which black hole they're talking about
so you can see that it's quite a
nonsensical here's a little example
rather of the principle of superposition
violations it relates to what I've just
been talking about let's say X is a
black hole universe it doesn't matter
what one any one you like and we have a
wise a Big Bang universe then we have X
plus y is not a universe in Einstein's
theory why because X plus y is a linear
combination and generally theory is what
we call a nonlinear theory so you cannot
make a linear combination of solutions
the first and the second thing is we see
that x and y pertain to completely
different sets of Einstein field
equations so they have absolutely
nothing to do with one another so how do
they get them to match or put them
together linearly they can't but they do
because they just decided that's what
they want to do but that doesn't work it
violates the general relativity the fear
of generality itself so you can't do
that but they do it all the time here's
a quote from Martin Rees he's the
astronomer royal he tells us that black
holes are all over the place and their
consequences of Einstein's theory well
in what Big Bang universe he doesn't
tell us but he does think it's in the
Big Bang universe you can see that it
doesn't make sense
now all Big Bang universes contrary to
what you might be led to believe are one
massing of vs. because they model the
universe as being fully completely
filled by a single indivisible
homogeneous distribution of matter and
so if that's the case how do you account
for gravity all experiments show that
gravity is an interaction between two or
more masses well you can't get that from
a model that models a whole universe as
a single master can't be divided up in
the bits nonetheless they divided up
into bits and tell us that the great big
bang universe has got lots of black
holes some of them are primordial sizes
of black holes don't change types
they're not types it's like human beings
we've got different races but we've got
big ones and small ones on a small one
but
you know so we've got different types
different races same with black holes
big ones and small ones are not types
they just sizes whatever you got here
now I can't read without my glasses and
I haven't got good ones so what do we
got here
oh yes well how do they get these black
holes and big bangs to go together they
apply the principle of superposition we
saw earlier that you can't do that
because generative is a nonlinear theory
you have two different solutions and you
add them together you haven't got a
solution right you can't do that you
have to solve a set of equation
specifically now this is not a NASA
photograph you can tell it's not a NASA
photograph because on the right hand
side written in vertical small print it
says an artistic impression this is a
standard method of presenting
photographs or images of black holes and
big bangs now we have an astronaut here
this is called spaghettification if you
don't know about it you get stretched
like a piece of spaghetti
well the astronaut on the left is a very
happy little Vegemite he's standing on
the earth
you see smiling now this one on the
right he's falling into a black hole or
maybe a star because black holes and
stars distinctly described by the same
alleged solutions so he's being
stretched why well which way is he
falling
you can't tell is he falling headfirst
or is he falling feet first let's say
he's falling headfirst the black hole
was star must be above his head
so he's falling in he gets stretched
like a piece of spaghetti because they
tell us that the tidal forces
gravitational forces on his head are
stronger than those on his feet and so
he gets stretched as he falls into this
black hole the trouble is in general
relativity
gravity's another force we see here
quote from a paper boy well him to see
there was a famous Dutch astronomer and
he tells us what we already know anyway
that in general relativity gravity is
not a force so you don't have a force of
gravity so why do they invoke forces of
gravity to spaghettify astronauts
falling into black holes in other words
they're using Newtonian ideas or forces
to describe gravitational forces where
in generality there are no forces
because what's what's gravity
it's a curvature of space-time so we
would have to say the curve
to a space/time on his head he's bigger
or stronger than the curvature of
space-time on his feet in some hair
another he gets a lot more curved
stretched at such well apples are fruit
aren't they
you take you go to the you go to the
grocery remember the old days you go the
grocery store and you would go to they
have a grocer would have a a pen in a
spring balance you put your apples in
the spring balance and it stretches the
spring and you read off the gauge is
that's two dollars or whatever it cost
for the apothem apples well how do you
weigh apples using general relativity
you know it's a curvature of space-time
the what's in the spring it's a force
it's stretching the spring we know
that's forces it's very simple physics
you cannot why apples with general
relativity you can't buy anything with
general relativity so if you've got a
theory of gravity that can't account for
weighing apples at the grocery store
what kind of theory of gravity have you
got mm-hmm tell me here is a black hole
universe this is not this is based on an
earth on a NASA photograph I drew it but
it's based on a NASA photograph this is
the kind of presentations you get so I
thought I just put that in as let you
know now what do we got here let's say
that the top line the horizontal line is
flat space-time and the horror in the
vertical line goes off to the
singularity where it's infinitely curved
space-time well as you move away from
the center by the radial distance you
get closer and closer but you never
actually touched the top line horizontal
one year close this is called asymptotic
flatness or asymptotic curve it as if
it's a curved space-time right so this
is a part of the definition the black
hole it goes off to infinity and
encounters no other masses because
otherwise you wouldn't have the
definition of a black hole so let's
compare this now we'll compare this to
two black holes well in this diagram
I've got the two black holes here next
to one another and a little insert there
with lots of black holes we see here
that in between these two black holes
are they asymptotically flat no what
about the left black hole and the right
black hole will the left black hole
encounters it's not as importantly flat
between them and it encounters in
curvature where the other black hole is
well similarly the right black hole it
encounters non it's not a knot no Kurt
no no asymptotic flatness in the middle
or curvature in the middle and it
encounters a infinite curvature at the
other black hole but by the definition
of black holes
they must be asymptotically flat or
asymptotically curved that's not
possible
can't be because let's have a look at
what this fellow
Daniel Stone he's a lead author on the
wise survey for NASA
they reckon they've got black holes
cornered he tells us that they found 2.5
million black holes with a wide survey
well that means each one of these black
holes that he talks about encounters two
million four hundred and ninety nine
thousand nine hundred and ninety nine
infinite curvatures all around it that's
a long way from being asymptotically
anything so that violates the very
definition of a black hole you can't
have black holes all over the place
black holes are one mass universes that
doesn't describe anything here's a real
gem I really like this one this is about
escape velocities this is what here we
find in the dictionary of geophysics and
astrophysics a black hole is a region of
space-time from which the escape
velocity exceeds the velocity of light
similarly we find in the import by
Hawking in his book the theory of
everything he tells us that you can't
escape from the event horizon white
hovers forever on the edge of the black
hole it doesn't even get out and there
here's my favorite one Professor Joseph
Lee and Hawthorne at the University of
Sydney at the Institute for astronomy he
was on television at this on the ABC one
not long ago he tells us that the escape
velocities of black holes is the speed
of light therefore light can't escape
think about that light the speed of
light is the light travels at the speed
of light the escape velocity is the
speed of light wouldn't life at escape
he tells us no it doesn't escape this is
on national television now I put a
little annotation here because it seems
to me that astrophysics has stumbled
upon a solution to a long-standing out
along outstanding anthropological
problem failure when typological problem
on the left its Homo erectus on the
right its cro-magnon man
the paleoanthropologist tell us that
hi my reckless didn't have the brain
capacity to make such contributions and
cro-magnon men they tell us had the read
the grain capacity to spot such
contradictions but somewhere in between
there's a brain capacity that can make
contradictions and never realize it
that's the missing link you all you you
know so I reckon so
so Charles Dawson and his co-accused
they didn't have to go out and get
themselves an ape-man the bull and fall
down the tooth and die there and rub
them in the closet Piltdown they get
their missing link all I had to do is
interview a few astrophysicists and
astronomers at the time they would have
found them there okay now here we got
some magical material sources this is
Einstein's field equations I've included
the cosmological constant that's a
second term there on the left
these are really ugly customers so we're
going to turn it into words but thing on
the left with the G that's one Stein's
tensor the thing with a lambda
that's the cosmological constant the
thing on the right hand side is the
energy momentum tensor
well it's turned that back into some
meaningful words' space-time curvature
equals a constant times the material
source is why because space-time
curvature is the gravity gravitational
field that it's induced by the presence
of the material sources this is what
Einsteins field equations do they couple
the gravitational forces or the
gravitational field because there are no
forces to its sources okay so the
space-time curvature is induced by the
presence of material sources let's take
these two examples on the Left we've got
case one let's make the material sources
disappear like Einstein does he says
Teague was nought and we make the letter
lambda equals another cosmological
constant naught as well his field
equations reduced to this thing it's
called the Ricci tensor well it's
nothing other than a statement that says
energy momentum tensor equals the Lord
example is the starch chilled solution
it's a solution for that that's
supposedly a black hole solution or a
star solution on the right hand side
we've got energy momentum tensor equals
zero but the cosmological constant
doesn't equal zero so we've got the
Ricci tensor equals a cosmological
constant term and his momentum tensor
still equals naught because T is not
this is do sitters empty universe it's
well known
why is it empty because it doesn't
contain anything let's have a look at
this on the left hand side material
sources are naught but there's a
material source on the right hand side
energy momentum source in mentem tensor
is zero there's no material sources but
isn't empty universe so by the very very
same constraint you have matter present
and absent how can that be
it's nonsense it's impossible of course
unless you're an escrow Mathemagician
you can do it now the principle of
equivalence Einstein here I just taken a
little bit from it the point of it is if
you read this thing you see that his
principle of equivalence is defined in
terms of the AR priori presence of
multiple masses and photons well we've
just seen that black hole universes are
one mess universes and we've seen that
Big Bang universe is one messy reduces
but in fact black hole universes are
empty universes because we saw in the
previous slide that there's a
contradiction between these two things
managing momentum tensor is zero and you
have matter both present and absent
that's impossible so you cannot have
multiple masses in either of these two
models Einstein's principle equivalence
is couched in terms of the presence of
multiple masses and photons so black
hole universe and Big Bang universe even
violate the principle of equivalence
that Einstein said why should I didn't
even realize himself that he was
violating his own principles when he
wrote these things down oh these are
really nice we put some grandpoo bars of
gravitation called maizena Thorne and
wheeler they wrote a book is the size of
a telephone book and they tell us in
that that let's read it one crucial
assumption that's at the heart or the
basis at the standard big hot Big Bang
model the universe began in a state of
rapid expansion from a nearly
homogeneous isotropic condition of
infinite or near infinite density and
pressure well I asked the question how
close to the infinite must you get to be
near infinite is it infinite minus one
maybe it's infinite minus opinion you
can never know
well he's not the only one worried Kraus
got on TV on us in Australia you
actually get on television in Australia
Larry and he tells us this that he can
get an almost an infinite number of what
universes well they are how close does
Larry have to get to an infinite to
infinity to have almost an infinite
number again is it infinity minus one
you know this seems to be a code of
practice with Astro mathematics that
you're not allowed to use common
parlance so I've got to refrain from the
vernacular so I'll translate it into
what and that's a scholarly language
have you ever heard a bigger crock right
austere Kasturi
in your life those of you who know Latin
will know what I mean those who don't
just look it up it's on you can google
it okay here's another thing they do
black holes have singularities Penrose
and Hawking tell us that they found
these singularities in all black hole
solutions well there are two types of
singularities there it's either a point
or the circumference of a circle I don't
mean a circle I mean the circumference
of a circle right and they're supposed
to be infinitely dense will you tell me
how a point or a circumference of a
circle can have mass well it doesn't
have volume so they divide the mass
which they pulled onto the circumference
or the point and they divide it by zero
and they tell you that the answer is
infinity is that real first infinity is
not a number in the second thing is you
can't by divide by zero as you know from
primary school that's not allowed it's
undefined but they do and they say it's
infinity and then they assign physical
properties to it they call them
singularities or event horizons but it's
nonsense yeah well this is just the
follow up in the previous slide these
guys Carol and Asli theis that it's not
a mathematical artifact you can divide
by node it's not a mathematical artifact
the other guys tell us it's not a
limiting function and not a limiting
fiction so it's not like a limit in
elementary calculus you take the limit
now they're dividing by nought and it's
true you can divide by Norden get
infinity 1 1 is what school I went to
I'm only glad I didn't go there
okay the infinite hotness of nothing
here's walking telling us that the
universe began and it's had a zero size
but it was infinitely high
well what's temperature it's all these
particles jiggling around isn't it don't
you have to have space to have particles
and don't they need space to jiggle
around but Hawking tells us it was zero
sighs but he's got an infinite
temperature
you've got no jiggling so he can't have
a temperature and how fast would they be
jiggling to be infinitely hot the mind
boggles you know now Larry Krauss on
television he's he's got a lot of gems
this guy he gets in television and he
tells us that he's got no there's no
space there's no time there's no
particles and they're ready he says this
is a good approximation or nothing in
other words nothing's a good
approximation to nothing you know I can
ask you is zero a good approximation to
zero so nothing is not nothing I was
another one from Larry he tells us that
he would argue that nothing is a
physical quantity it's the absence of
something can you believe it I thought
to myself does that include the absence
of neurons
here we come again he's hilarious he's a
big timer the second coming of Kraus I
couldn't resist it the universe came
again from nothing there's no radiation
no space no time no nothing etcetera
etcetera that's the reason why it's hard
he got chopped off there you can read
the transcripts someone chopped him off
they must have a cigarette but what does
hawking tell us energy cannot be created
out of nothing they just told us the
universe came out of nothing but walking
tells us no you can't Energy's not
created you can't create energy out of
nothing
what's there dark energy isn't it energy
didn't they create that out of nothing
yeah but you can't do that talk about
contradictions
here's numerical methods well they think
you can now solve for multiple black
holes while numerical methods because I
know that they can't get an analytic
solution for two or more masses with
Einstein's equations so what do they do
they pretend they've got two or more
black holes and then they applied the
numerical methods to them they haven't
given us a numerical salute or a set of
equations to solve to define the two
black holes or more black holes they
just say oh we've got these black holes
let's make numerical methods to make a
merge so it's numerical methods on
nonsense what do you get from that more
nonsense ah this is Lucy she's my
favorite blonde we talk physics when we
go walking in the park she's three years
old she's a semi and she's beautiful I
love her very much this is the
Australian grass tree it's very
interesting you see this tree it's very
ancient and fascinating it has a base
like a trunk that bright black trunk
there grows tall and you see the grass
is called a grass tree because these
grass comes out of the head and it has a
spear growing up through the center and
another top of the spear is a kind of a
spear head and it's a really ancient
thing really fascinating unfortunately
don't have time to discuss it so we'll
have to move on
now let's if you take a glass of water
and put inside a microwave oven and turn
it on tell us something does the water
reflect or absorb the microwaves if
you're an astronaut the magician you
don't know the answer but if you've ever
used the microwave oven you know that
the water absorbs the microwaves doesn't
it does it reflect them would you what
if you put a block of ice in there and
do the same thing what if you put your
head in there and you turned it on would
you do it I wouldn't do it
why because you absorbed microwaves and
your heads full of water so water
absorbs microwaves what are we know from
physics physics tells us that anything
that's a good absorber is also good
emitter right so if water absorbs
microwaves in emits microwaves that's
very important we know that from a
microwave oven
hmm now here's water some water
molecules water molecules are very
interesting the water molecule itself
can be considered as a monomer then if
you have two of them join up together
with a hydrogen bond you have a dimer
and then many of them join up by
hydrogen bonds each water molecule can
form four hydrogen bonds right and this
core it forms a kind of fleeting polymer
structure and these hydrogen bonds are
the other responsible actually for the
emissions of microwaves from water so
this is a very important thing to
remember about water why what is the
mechanism you need an oscillator of some
kind to generate emissions in water it's
this now absolute and differential
instruments these wmf was what we call
differential instrument and Coby furious
was an absolutely instrument in a kind
of way what the Furious satellite did it
compared the sky signal to an onboard
calibrator so it's still kind of a
differential instrument but it's called
an absolute instrument whereas W map for
instance had to say two horns the
signals come in and if they're the same
you cancel the signals by comparing them
together if they're the same signal that
cancels everything out right anything
that's not the same in that in the two
horns is left behind as difference data
so
you have some remnants if they're
exactly the same they will disappear
when you subtract in signal now with the
Furious instrument you have a calibrator
set at a temperature that you can modify
they take the sky signal and then they
modify the temperature to match what
they think is a sky signal and then if
they get what's called a null a
difference between the two is zero then
this hour the sky signal is exactly what
our collaborator is because now we get a
zero white can separate different in the
two well with W map they remove what's
called the monopole seed with the mean
temperature of the so-called Cosmic
Microwave Background and they're left
with little bits that aren't the same in
the two horns so that's called the anti
so trapeze right so this is the
difference between the two the Planck
satellite however was a bit different
it's capable of an absolute the
detection and it's also capable of a
differential measurement right so the
question is what did these satellites
measure well the first thing is when you
take a real microwave image let's think
of what it's composed of think of
transparencies piled upon one another
right the top one we've got here the
Galactic foreground that's noise you got
to get rid of that it's a lot of noise
coming from the galaxy it's a meeting in
microwave how do you get rid of that
data processing then after that we've
got a monopole signal this is around
about three Kelvin the foreground is
about millikelvin
then we've got a dipole signal it's due
to the motion of the satellite against
the Galactic group or the local group
it's in nearly Kelvin as well and behind
all of these we have what are called
multi polls higher orders it's because
it's made into an infinite series
mathematically it's an infinite series
in spherical harmonics okay so we've got
to get rid of the Galactic foreground
the dipole signal and what's left our
mean temperature well then we want to
get rid of that and we can get the
dipoles so sorry I'm the multipoles
now balloons and Rockets went up into
the atmosphere so they measured stuff in
the atmosphere
well when we've talked about water in
the microwave what about the earth is
not covered in water the Earth's about
70 percent coated in water covered in
water water emits microwaves these
microwaves are going up into the
atmosphere they're getting scattered
around Coby didn't have a shield for
microwaves only RF and thermal so what
is it's 900 kilometers
it's getting microwaves from Earth
because they're bouncing over the shield
of deflecting over the shield all of
these balloons and satellites which
rather balloons and rockets up into the
atmosphere the Earth's atmosphere is
full of microwaves from water reservoirs
the atmosphere is full of water too so
we have a look now where these
satellites are located here is Kobe
furious very close to the earth 900k is
up right and this is not the scale of
course so it's getting microwaves from
the War of the earth it's going up into
the Furious horn by diffraction right
they think it's cosmic but it's not it's
getting it from the earth right because
watery mids and they couldn't protect it
from this here is an inner fury Graham
from the Kobe theorists team see the top
trace this is where they say they get a
null between the sky and a temperature
about what seven point two point seven
three five two point seven five nine is
it yeah I think so and then you look at
the second trace this is a sky it's a
near Nile at two point seven some other
one and between the two calibrates that
they had on board well this is very
deceptive you see the top trace in the
bottom trace they're on the wrong
they're on a different scale the Kobe
Furious team published this if you read
that you think oh they must go to a null
they didn't they didn't get a null in a
way because the top and bottom traces
three two fight they had their amplitude
suppressed by a factor of three to five
compared the middle one so if you
amplify these two traces of top and
bottom they didn't get to know anywhere
but they claimed they did not even at
that temperature they claimed it was a
two point seven to five that it doesn't
even appear in their data so that's a
pretty shifty looking graph here's
another one notice that this is a
blackbody curve it differs from the
perfect one by nothing it's the the
error bars are 400 times smaller than
the width of the width of the curve and
what do you find here let's count the
divisions from the from zero one two
three four is something wrong three this
graph has been shifted to the left
there's a division missing where does it
start
they haven't told us where it starts
that's very convenient now we might
analyze that and try to figure out where
it's
make some sense of it but they presented
this as a data that's the data for their
blackbody curve so the separative graph
it seemed properly labeled why did they
do that well they didn't get a graph
that didn't get an inferior gram that
got him a temperature with a null and I
present this is a perfect null
doesn't add up here is a monopole signal
it fills the sky that's the one that's
the so-called mean temperature of the
CMB it fills everything right that's the
one that they say is the temperature of
the universe here is the DMR or the
differential microwave radiometers from
Kobe notice that there's a big strip in
the middle red that's the Galactic
foreground why is it present because
they couldn't zero the foreground so
they present here an anti Sacopee map
with the foreground the foreground is
anisotropic the monopoles disappeared
because the two horns cancelled and
remove the monopole because it's in the
same the same in each horn but here
we've got the bits that differ including
the glycan ik foreground well it appears
because I couldn't get rid of it they're
trying to look through the galaxy to
find these little bits that are 1
million times smaller than the mean
temperature of the so-called CMB well if
you can't get rid of it with data
processing you use scissors see they cut
it out I didn't do this
this comes from George Smoot he did it
with scissors
can you believe it well here's a really
interesting thing I'd like to read it to
you so I'll come over here so I can read
it properly this is from some smut and
his colleagues we were confident that
the quadrupole was a real cosmic symbol
by late January and early February the
results were beginning to gel but they
still did not quite make sense
I tried all kinds of different
approaches plotting beta in every format
I could think of including upside down
up down backwards just to try a new
perspective and hoping for a
breakthrough and I thought why not throw
out the quadrupole the thing I'd been
searching for all those years and see if
Nature had put anything else there why
by puzzled did I have to remove the
quadrupole to see the wrinkles well
quadrupole is one of those multipoles I
talked about before
he thinks they're real right well
professor Robert has got a really really
neat answer to this the answer to this
question is one of data processing when
smart and his colleagues impose the
systematic removal of signal they
produce the systematic remnant in
essence the act of removing the
quadrupole created the multipoles and
the Associated systematic ni site repeat
once a quadrupole has removed the
multipoles appeared as extremely
consistent variations on the maps parent
and isotropy must not be generated by
processing so in other words George
Smoot and his colleagues couldn't tell
the difference between data and data
induce spots before their eyes they
think that's data here is where l2 is
see the earth l2 is 1.5 million
kilometers away from Earth
that's where W map was and where the
Planck satellite was there's no monopole
signal out there W map couldn't detect
it because it was a differential
instrument Planck has never reported the
finding of a monopole why because there
is no monopole the monopole signal with
a mean temperature is from Earth from
the water in the atmosphere and that's
what Kobe detected it didn't have a
shield remember the microwaves
diffracted over here is some comparative
maps well look at this on the left
Piper corner that's the K band this is
these frequencies in which W map sampled
look at that how red is that it was full
of so much noise it was useless the one
next to it's not much better so what did
they do decide to do well they combined
all of these maps and then they played
around with it and they waited the V
band why because it looks the best we
don't like that one up in the left-hand
corner we'd better not use it so they
gave it really low waiting and they did
this to get themselves a map of the
universe that looks like this magically
all that noise from the flight before
ground is gone yeah but remember it's
1,000 times weaker than the Galactic
foreground well we know from laboratory
experience if you're trying to extract
the signal that's 1,000 times weaker
than the noise you can only do it if you
have one of two things satisfied you
either they have up
your knowledge of the nature of the
source or the ability to manipulate the
source if you can't do that you can't
extract that signal that noise is too
overpowering so how did they do it data
processing on nonsense this is the
Planck receiver low-frequency instrument
they compared the sky to another onboard
calibrator right just like ferris did
right but it's a more sensitive
instrument goes in they compare the
thing in that box right now let's have a
look at there see this this is their
calibrator or their load notice on the
bottom how they connected it they
connect the dead load their so-called
black body by bolting it to the high
frequency shield the high frequency
shield was maintained at 4 Kelvin right
this is supposed to be a black body
comparator in other words this should be
a meeting around about 4 K into the horn
as an emitter but it's got one those
those connectors there are stainless
steel washers you got conduction so
they're conducting heat out of this into
the shield they're not this doesn't have
to meet a single photon in other words
they're black bodies on board don't even
work so Planck this is a serious design
flaw Planck cartridges anything without
the 4 K loads there's no monopole adèle
- they can't they can't find anything
how do they do it well it's just the
data procedural issue the main you know
none of its real so my final fliers is
believe it or not it is now being
alleged that alignments between the
dipole and the multi poles of the
fictitious CMB or generated by data
processing form an axis of evil
seriously and this axis of evil right
tells us that we are at the center of
the universe we're going back to
medieval times with epicycles and the
earth is at the center of the universe
can you believe this that's what now the
CMB is being useful right now I had a
lot of jokes about this but the truth of
the matter is it's serious but it's so
ridiculous that you can't help but laugh
at the
physics is now become intellectually
decrepit so I will conclude there by
telling you why what the parallax effect
on short here really is well according
to the grand poobahs again it's a Baldy
pipe why because black holes they don't
have any hair that's the reason why I
gave that title thank you very much
