on the 4th of July
the world's TV screens were filled with
high-fiving
astronomers celebrating the deep impact
missions direct hit on comet Tempel 1 it
was an extraordinary achievement and
fully merited the celebrations a few
weeks later though when the cameras had
gone the astronomers were left
scratching their heads in confusion the
Deep Impact team had hoped that when the
impact of spacecraft hit temple 1 it
would kick up a relatively small cloud
of dust expose an area of pristine icy
material underneath and release a cloud
of dust and ice this is exactly what
didn't happen the electric universe
model of comets on the other hand
successfully predicted the results of
the Deep Impact mission years before
including the initial flash before an
unexpectedly energetic outburst that
prevented the mission from achieving its
main goal of imaging the crater now we
have the Rosetta mission to comet 67p
churyumov-gerasimenko and the ESA
scientists are once more left scratching
their heads in confusion the comet was
much rougher and more oddly shaped and
anticipated and when the feel a lander
bounced off the surface it was admitted
by team members that we failed to
explain the rebounds and the higher
strength material was a surprise to us
the firm belief that comets are
primordial and the source of the water
on earth requires that our eyes are
deceiving us as one of the fill a team
said it's rocky like but not rock such
as the Selective blindness induced by
prior beliefs there is an opportunity
for the Rosetta mission to fulfill a far
greater purpose than merely establish a
myth of planet formation because if
comet 67p is a rock it is telling us two
fundamentally important things first it
tells us that our belief that comets
formed the planets is wrong and that the
reverse is true the planets formed the
Comets because rocks and clay also found
by the Stardust mission in Comet dust
require planetary processes in their
formation and second the low density of
the comet measured by its gravity tells
us that we don't understand gravity or
the structure of comets or possibly both
the electric universe model has comets
born of
by electrical discharge which overwhelms
gravity by many orders of magnitude and
in a simple garage experiment it was
found that the discharge melted hematite
powder used to mimic the red dust found
on Mars and formed spheres like those
found in abundance in the Martian soil
significantly some spheres were found to
be Hollow and some joined in pairs to
form a dumbbell shape with a narrow neck
so Comet 67p may be hollow to some
degree which isn't possible according to
the standard model but perhaps of most
significance is the implication for
basic physics and our understanding of
nature and the universe because nowhere
will you see it acknowledged by
physicists that they don't understand
why matter has mass in fact the
confusion extends to textbooks and
encyclopedias where the words mass and
matter are used interchangeably
Wikipedia is explicit and I quote mass
describes the amount of matter in an
object end of quote
but one of the key messages from the
equation everyone knows but no one
understands e equals MC squared is that
mass is a property of matter and that
therefore it is an energetic variable I
should mention that no physicist can
define energy in terms of the nature of
matter you will read of its
classifications conversion from one form
to another and it's conservation but
it's physical nature in matter is a
mystery our fundamental ignorance is
complete and exposed in this simple
equation so the mass of the comet cannot
tell us how much matter it contains if
it looks like rocket is safest to assume
that it is rock we have had plenty of
forewarning after visiting a large
number of comets and asteroids and
finding it difficult to distinguish
between them by their appearances yet we
believe asteroids are rocky and comets
are not it's become a modern myth this
is shocking news
we can't therefore say what stars and
planets are made from modern cosmology
is revealed as another mythology dealt
to us by a new age of astronomer priests
rosetta is sending scientists a stark
message when astrophysicists use mass in
their equations they don't know what
they're talking about that's why we have
the Big Bang
black holes dark matter
dark energy and weird neutron stars and
looking for the origin of particle mass
by our hypothetical Higgs boson is
futile and a colossal waste of resources
both particle physics and cosmology are
a theory Laden computer-generated
Fantasyland each discipline has led the
other on in their wild speculations we
have wasted a century on both of them so
it remains to be seen if Homo sapiens
ignoramus can decode what comet 67p this
modern rosetta stone in space has to
tell us
you
