the son is an enigma for 70 years we
have believed its core to be a
thermonuclear furnace yet all our
attempts to reproduce the hypothesized
fusion have failed with new technology
we now see the Sun in spectacular detail
and what we are seeing is not what we
expected
charged particles defy gravity exploding
from the sun's surface at millions of
miles per hour and then continuing to
accelerate out past the inner planets
the sun's temperature increases by
millions of degrees as we move away from
its surface polar Jets erupt along
magnetic field lines this activity above
the sun's surface requires something
beyond a thermonuclear core
but it is exactly what is to be expected
from an external electric field acting
on the Sun what will happen to the space
sciences if we are able to reproduce the
features of the Sun electrically in a
laboratory the Thunderbolts project
extends you an invitation to find it
you
