welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info in the last two space news episodes
while Thornhill has reported on recent
discoveries that provide stunning
foundational affirmation of the electric
universe theory we now turn our
attention to the latest science reports
from the ESA s Rosetta mission to comet
67p the comparative predictive success
of the electric comet theory versus that
the standard dirty snowball Theory
cannot be more striking the electric
universe states that comets are not icy
fluff balls that formed billions of
years ago in the solar system's infancy
as conventional theory has proposed for
several decades rather comets as well as
asteroids and meteorites were
electrically excavated from planets and
moons this seemingly outrageous
prediction accurately foretold the
astonishing planetary features of 67p
including its towering cliffs its rock
and boulders strewn terrain it's
extraordinary topographical variety and
of course it's utterly desiccated and
barren surface to smooth icy terrain
long ago predicted by standard theory
could not be more emphatically refuted
today we see some indications of the
beginnings of the inevitable paradigm
shift in comet science a space.com
report on June 2nd 2015 describes the
comet as a quote space rock with a quote
rocky surface most impressively nowhere
in the short article did the author
attempt to force fit the word ice into
descriptions of the Comets desert like
terrain a further hint can be found in
the abstract of the recent paper the
solar wind interaction with comet
churyumov-gerasimenko discussing data on
solar wind interaction with the comet
the author's state as the comet moves
closer to the Sun these effects should
increase along with possibly other new
an unexpected plasma and field phenomena
the electric universe predicts that
cometary activity is fundamentally
electrical activity the comet acquires a
negative charge with respect to its and
in the outer reaches of the solar system
as it approaches the inner limits of its
orbit moving through the sun's weak
electric field it will begin to
discharge to the plasma surrounding it
producing the comet's coma in tailed
comet Jets our electrical discharge
phenomena they are not the result of
solar warming heating invisible
theoretical subsurface ices this
interpretation of comet Jets is
supported by the images of Comet 67p to
fill a mentor ejects which are often
curved and occasionally divert in
opposing directions behave nothing like
gas and dust dispersed in a vacuum
furthermore the Jets haven't seen
emitting even when not exposed to
sunlight
harkening back to the completely
unexpected discovery of jets at comet
ville - which exploded from the dark
unheated side of the comet spectroscopic
readings had scientists interpret as
evidence for invisible sublimating ices
are the result of electrochemical
processes these extremely controversial
predictions have received stunning
support from the Rosetta mission in late
2014 greatly enhanced electron fluxes
and densities were found surprisingly
close to the comet nucleus and today
scientists are reporting that these
electrons play a significant role in the
breakup of molecules in the comet's coma
a June 4th Universe Today article on
this data states a NASA science
instrument flying aboard the European
Space Agency's Rosetta spacecraft has
made a very surprising discovery namely
that the molecular breakup mechanism of
quote water and carbon dioxide molecule
spewing from the Comets surface into the
atmosphere of Comet 67p
churyumov-gerasimenko is caused by quote
electrons close to the surface the
article also states that the combat
discovery is quote causing scientists to
completely rethink what we know about
the wandering bodies principal
investigator Alan Stern states the
discovery we're reporting is quite
unexpected however as wal Thornhill
explains scientists interpretation of
this data is based on the continued
assumption of a quote ice
Comet the third report comes from the
Rosetta team comet 67p
churyumov-gerasimenko quote has revealed
an unexpected process at work causing
the rapid breakup of water and carbon
dioxide molecules spewing from the
comet's surface end of quote
note that it is simply assumed that
water and carbon dioxide molecules are
issuing from the comet the appearance of
energized atoms is unexpected because
scientists are wedded to the idea that
comets are icy leftovers from the
formation of the solar system and that
neutral complete molecules of those ices
are released in jets by solar heating as
the comet swings nearer the Sun
ultraviolet radiation from the Sun is
then believed to be responsible for
breaking those molecules apart at large
distances from the comet but the Rosetta
team was surprised to find oxygen and
carbon atoms within tens to a hundred
metres of the Comets surface much too
close for solar UV to have been
responsible what's more these atoms show
evidence of having been dislodged from
parent molecules by energetic electrons
the only recourse given the conventional
beliefs about comets is to suggest that
the electrons come from UV dissociation
of water molecules in November last year
greatly enhanced electron fluxes and
densities were found about the comet by
another rosetta instrument which
appeared to be associated with cometary
ions created near the nucleus the
problem is that solar ultraviolet
radiation was thought to break down
neutral molecules into charged atoms and
ions over distances of hundreds or
thousands of kilometres from the comet
nucleus and not smack bang up against
the nucleus in contrast the electric
universe model predicted long ago the
presence of energetic electrons and
excited atoms right down to the Comets
surface it is a cold cathode type
discharge sputtering atoms from rock
minerals on the Comets surface to form
collimated cathode Jets of ultrafine
dust excited atoms and electrons
sublimating ices are not necessary
clearly Comet 67p looks like rock with
no sign of Isis recent reports have
begun calling it a rock or rocky
meanwhile the journal Nature on April 20
expressed surprise when the dark side of
the comet suddenly sprouted a jet this
too was predicted long ago by the
electric universe model energetic
electrons and excited atoms should be
found in such dark jets in the absence
of solar UV on the dark side of the
comet these three recent reports signal
that a paradigm shift must happen it
will seem obvious in retrospect all
matter in the universe is electrical in
nature to have a cosmology that ignores
electricity and relies on the force of
gravity which is 39 orders of magnitude
weaker than the electric force that's as
close to zero as you can practically get
will seem incredible in future the
electric universe conference later this
month is unique in its broad
interdisciplinary scope which is another
pointer to its future success be there
it's a chance to see history in the
making for continuous updates on space
news from the electric universe stay
tuned to Thunderbolts dot info
