my title is visual intuition and the
ancient sky by subtitle complexity
theory and plasma cosmology I'm going to
beg the graces of those who know more
about complexity theory and cellular
automata than I do and they will help us
through this the most difficult part of
my presentation this is the defining
image the squatter man will you've seen
it before we'll see him again these are
more familiar images to you already the
squatter man in petroglyphs this is Kai
anta a defining image that will come up
later all around the world and more in
Arizona so you see how global and this
is hard to see but it's in our the state
we're in if anyone knows who drew this
I'd be deeply appreciative I came across
it through parot images on Google which
led me to ancient destructions calm we
see here marvelously we see here Stone
Age man and woman gazing at squatter man
configuration in the sky after having
made a petroglyph about it likewise what
is above it in the polar configuration
after having made another petroglyph of
it so I'm going to tantalize you with
something very strange this will be the
subject of my exposition of the walk of
work of stephen wolfram author of a new
kind of science 2000
and it's very strange isn't it I will go
over it later but I just want you to
look at this image particularly at this
just hold that image
my thesis complexity theory is a
powerful natural a light of plasma
cosmology both tell us that in
reconstructing the sequence of events in
the ancient sky we have to imagine
watching images unfold in a sequence a
story the events and images are often
too complex to be predictable both tell
us that visual intuition will be an
indispensible guide and even in many
cases a form of proof will see if I make
this thesis clear to you or not
Galileo looking rather feisty don't you
think now now laches soon gave us the
popular version of Galileo's famous
statement the book of nature is written
in mathematics since that simplification
which we are more familiar with than the
original is not really the whole of what
Galileo was said in one splendid long
sentence of Italian prose I'll read you
a translation of that sentence nature
does not appear in it but philosophy and
the universe do philosophy is written in
that great book which ever is before our
eyes I mean the universe but we cannot
understand it if we do not first learn
the language and grasp the symbols in
which it is written the book is written
in mathematical language and the symbols
are triangles circles and other
geometrical figures without whose help
it is impossible to comprehend a single
word of it without which one wanders in
vain through a dark labyrinth
16:23 sagittal array the essayer no my
theme will be partly the mathematics
bashing which we've already seen
however I want to come back to Galileo
in the end and show him to be a good guy
- all right but for the moment let us
note that for him mathematics meant a
geometry indeed classical Euclidean
geometry and he is certainly emphatic
without knowing that geometry you can't
read a single word in the book of nature
that does seem to be excessive still
we'll come back to him as a good guy now
here is Stephen Wolfram and here is the
first statement about how mathematics
can be superseded complemented augmented
replaced various possibilities by other
procedures which require more visual
intuition this and many subsequent
quotes are taken from an excellent thing
online quick takes on some ideas and
discoveries in a new kind of science
written by Wolfram his book on 846 pages
with 300 pages of fine print footnotes
is perhaps complex but he knows the
relation of simplicity to complexity and
on his various website pages he'll give
you the whole book in one single page
summary and he'll give you quick takes
here's a quick take he will make the
very quick take and then explain it
mathematical equations do not capture
many of nature's most essential
mechanisms for more than three centuries
we're talking Galileo - now mathematical
equations and methods such as calculus
have been taken as the foundation for
the exact sciences there have been many
profound successes but a great many
important and obvious phenomena in
nature remain unexplained especially
ones where more complex forms or
behavior are observed
now two other familiar faces more
familiar than Wolfram's perhaps uh
Talbot and Thornhill weighing in on
mathematics astrophysicists are not
trained in electrodynamics or plasma
discharge phenomena such things would
render their gravitational models
obsolete they continue to rely on gas
and magnetized fluid physics that is
mathematically well-mannered uncritical
application of mathematical models will
lead to whimsical and unstable
descriptions of nature so Wolfram's
exposition of his use of cellular
automata and his claim that through them
we can also study similar phenomena in
nature is what I will now explore in the
most technical part of my presentation
so here is a cellular automaton and here
is the progression of it and I'm going
to explain both images carefully but
first the quote cellular automata are
examples of simple programs that work by
having the color of each cell in
successive rows be determined by the
same simple rule so let's see the
example here is the second cell in a
checkerboard like this in which the top
line is as it were the initial state and
each line lower down is a subsequent
state of evolution of the cellular
automaton the evolution is contingent on
the rules for each of these eight boxes
let's look at this one if the cell the
central cell is white and flanked by
both White's left and right then in the
next stage it will be white if white but
flanked by white on the
left and black on the right again black
and so forth with each of these
evolutions now Wolfram took 255 cellular
automata of this kind all of them have
rules exactly as simple as each other
and they lead to very different kinds of
developments as you go from stage to
stage from horizontal level to
horizontal level down the checkerboard
with the rules above a simple pattern is
produced here is the simple pattern
evolving by these rules based on chapter
2 the crucial experiment and a new kind
of science these images of cellular
automata illustrates some of the core
discoveries of nks and I add the two
images above or rule 90 in Wolfram set
of 255 rules I hope you fasten to your
seat belt because if this page is
unclear you will only get more complex
alright but we perhaps will have time
for questions
rule 90 produces an intricate yet
ultimately regular pattern look at this
isn't that lovely
it's a pattern it's in fact fractal to
the beauty of fractals
that's rule 90 a different rule just as
simple producing a different pattern
which is getting on the left striated
into bands and on the right complex the
wielder Wolfram as discovered and argues
in a new kind of science that certain
simple rules can produce patterns and
behavior of immense complexity above his
rule 30 it soon becomes complex above
and at a hundred steps it appears very
complex indeed below can you see how
striated bands are here but this is
other random isn't it well it only gets
worse if if for you randomness is bad at
a thousand steps rule 30 pardon pike
typo appears to have patterns in the
bands on the left and to be random to
the right of those bands if one started
with only one step 1000 here one could
not reconstruct the simple rule that
generated it one would not guess that
the rule was simple and to look ahead to
the grand thesis suppose that this whole
evolution is like some phenomenon in
nature which you observe part of so say
you observe only this part like there
that's all you can see would you ever be
able to reconstruct the simple rule that
generated it would you be able to guess
that the rules that generated it were
simple rule 10 is in a different
category of rules from those generating
either Panem's or randomness there's
rule 110 as it evolves a complex pattern
emerges on the right and it continues to
morph into similar patterns at different
shapes none quite the same as the
pattern preceding it a mysterious
statement we sent about to illustrate
here is it's Elementary
rule 110 here is the opening sequence of
steps so far it's just not so clear
what's going to happen is it
but this is the image I began with and
asked you to hold that image rule 10 at
250 steps I would gladly have given you
it at a thousand steps but it seemed a
bit too much memory so we have the
patterning of striations we have here
something that seems to be monochrome
one of the possibilities he sort of
cellular automata when he was a boy
wonder in his 20s into four categories
when they turn random sorry when they
turn monochrome when they turn patterned
when they turn random and when they turn
what he calls complex this evolution is
visibly something that in which each
phase of it resembles earlier phases but
is not the same it's what I call the
Canadian phenomenon you look similar but
somehow different so can you see that we
are are I've sees this as a pattern
where I cease this is a pattern this
pattern resembles that but is neither
the same scale nor precisely the same
shape so we could watch this unfold a
long time perhaps forever and would
still not be able to predict the
patterns in advance that is the
essential point of his take on the word
complexity now we've gotten through the
worst and most technical part what I
shall now do is juxtaposed statements
from a new kind of science taking
Stephen Wolfram as a case among many
fine laborers in complexity theory I
don't want to make him the sole star
that's been a problem with his reception
with you and I'm not interested in that
problem but many complexity theory
people would make similar statements
likewise I'm going to take Talbot and
Thornhill and
representative of many fine workers and
quite distinctive in their own
contribution and I'm gonna juxtapose
statements on a few topics mathematics
complexity and time so you can see the
how they might be powerful natural
allies with their similar views on these
topics and others views on mathematics
for the new kind of science thinking in
terms of programs rather than equations
opens up a new kind of science
mathematical equations correspond to
particular kinds of rules computer
programs can embody far more general
rules the electric universe uncritical
application of mathematical models will
lead to whimsical and unstable
descriptions of nature a quote you heard
from me before all right views on
complexity new kind of science even
extremely simple programs can produce
behavior of immense complexity that's
what we saw in rule 110 everyday
experience tends to make one think that
it is difficult to get complex behavior
and that to do so requires complicated
underlying rules the discovery now that
simple programs can produce immense
complexity forces a major shift in
scientific intuition
I love his choice of that words by the
way it's from the Latin to a or which
means to look at intuition is just
looking deeply at alright electric
universe although plasma behavior
follows simple or electric magnetic laws
the resulting complexity continues to
astonish the specialists who study it
plasma can self-organize into cells of
differing electrical characteristics I
included that last sentence because
self-organizing is another term in
complexity theory which came naturally
to the the pen of the authors of
electric universe it's part of the
language we now speak really views on
time through the third of the three
topics I mention a new kind of science
time may have a fundamentally different
nature from space the standard
mathematical formulation of relativity
theory suggests that despite our
everyday impression time should be
viewed as a fourth dimension much like
space a new kind of science suggests
however the time as we perceive it may
instead emerge from an underlying
process that makes it quite different
from space electric universe Einstein
redefined Newtonian gravity by placing
it in a metaphysical framework he
combined the three measurable physical
dimensions of space with the matter of
mathematical dimension that cannot be
measured by a ruler time the claimed
success of Einsteins thought experiments
encouraged mathematicians to follow his
lead and they have dominated physics and
cosmology ever since this skeptical
attitude towards what Einstein did will
I take it warm the heart of all who
attend Natural Philosophy Alliance
meetings we're going to really relax
because I'm going to tell you stories
all right to prepare the ground here's
the last sentence of a new kind of
science and a quote from a poet placed
by the authors of the electric universe
at the top of the second page of that
book last sentence of a new kind of
science all the wonders of the universe
can in effect be captured by simple
rules but there can be no way to know
all the consequences of
these rules except in effect just to
watch and see how they unfold to a or to
watch and see quote on second page of
the electric universe a quote I deeply
love the universe is made of stories not
of atoms Muriel Rukeyser by the way I
have another quote and I think it's
quite head who was cited earlier the
event is the unit of things real if
that's not by apply head please correct
me but it's a philosopher saying what a
poet says here now I'm gonna tell you an
unpredictable story one of the great
serendipitous moments in the history of
science I like to think perhaps
Christmas tree Christmas tree meets
Talbots chain of arrows chain of arrows
all right
this is the story some of you may have
heard it in a simplified version I am
privileged to have received it from the
horse's mouth they've taught in an email
of this week earlier and I asked him to
tell me the story of parrot at a meeting
where he said what are those and Petra M
Talbot said petroglyphs and did this the
first version I heard of it was per at
thought well these are my plasma shapes
what are they doing out there in
petroglyphs but here's dave's telling of
the story we'd invited Tony to our
conference in September 2000 at a
gathering of speakers the next day after
the conference Tony was inspired to go
to the whiteboard and to draw some
plasma images let's go back there's the
whiteboard there are the plasma images
then he drew out the chain of arrows
which he called the Christmas tree upper
left form and the attached I said Tony
you've just drawn the chain of arrows an
image I directed walls attention to only
a few days before the conference Tony
asked how the form evolved I told him it
began with twin filaments up the polar
axis dividing into a stack of embedded
cones that emergently emerged eventually
as a stack of Tauruses called the ladder
of heaven and backbone of the sky Tony
said that's how the Perret instability
evolved the name given to the
configuration by his coworkers when he
returned home he asked me for the rock
art images and the first image I sent
him was the Chi Yenta petroglyph because
I had no doubt he would recognize it
that was the squatter man from chi ant
Arizona really just across the border in
northern Arizona from northern
New Mexico the moment Tony saw it his
life was changed he had no doubt
whatsoever that it was an intense plasma
instability and he immediately
identified the parts for me Dave
attached this picture to you can call
these Christmas trees arrows or cones
they are either going up to or coming
down from a red disc that would be Mars
then his attention immediately shifted
to cataloging rock art images and on
numerous occasions afterwards
Tony confirmed to me that he had
absolutely confirmed the formations I'd
reconstructed saying that he could also
demonstrate conclusively in due course
that they involved planets as the anodes
and cathodes in the discharge
configuration that's the end of the
story as Dave tobot emailed it to me in
titling it the story in a nutshell so
now the story takes on a dramatic global
life / @ assembles a team to look at
rock art all around the world and to put
a GPS on each to see where it's pointing
well all that team is modernist anthony
von der Sluis AKA wrens there he is with
the great pyramids is backdrop there he
is in Mongolia so what does the team
come up with
well I'm going to give you three
examples of rock art juxtaposed to
photographs by Tony I think we're doing
well on time because I'm coming to an
end which will be familiar to many of
you and this is just to confirm that
this global wandering team did indeed
find rock art images corresponding to
what you'll see as photographs
3-dimensional of Tony's figures
generated in a lab and then a schematic
drawing of them and there again we saw
this at the beginning this is the
Cayenne pipette rogue laughs which they
first sent to Tony so that would be the
squatter man I'm going to show you two
more and Tony and his written work says
he has a total of 84 some plasma shapes
in rock art so a second would be first
the schematic diagram of a stacked torus
and second that image four miles west of
here in petroglyph national monument
Rinconada
support your local petroglyph so one two
three four five six stacks one two three
four five six
sometimes they're five sometimes they're
4 6 is very common and we needn't go
into the details of the schematic
diagram you've seen it before you'll
probably see it again finally defining
image further the tipping point the
virus rod the Hindu word for the great
Thunderbolt which Indra wields at which
one fine recent translator Stanley
Lombardo used in his translation of
hesiod theogony for the great
thunderbolt which is use wheel
here is the three-dimensional photograph
in peratt's lab here is the try dental
shape at both ends of the Thunderbolt or
of those Trident of Poseidon and here is
the hand the grasp it of a God my own
specialty is Pinder and in a poem a
victory ode for a young boxer from
southern Italy whose town had a
lightning bolt on its coins Pinder leads
to that coinage at the climax of the
poem by speaking of Zeus's primeval
victory the pattern for all olympic
victories where he overcame the titans
and python with the bolt as he says
grasped by the hand of fire that is the
hand of fire the problem now for us is
the Tonys story is about things that
appeared in the sky that are not there
now the story is not finished until we
can say how they disappeared how they as
we might say disintegrated how amping up
the language it collapsed catastrophic
way that is the story rensef said
himself to tell and he does so purely
through the language of myths around the
world in the fourth of the four volumes
of its recently published magnum opus
traditional cosmology the global
mythology of creation and destruction
volume 4 is entitled sorry pardon the
typo disintegration and its subsections
are disruption disconnection dispersion
inversion departure periodization and
eschaton the last thing so you can read
that volume right now so we return to
Galileo this is
my last slide and here Galileo is
Galileo is showing the Doge of Venice
his telescope too bad the dogs they
didn't use his power to keep Galileo out
of the hands of the forces of the Pope
and ultimately of life-long house arrest
I'm going to summarize with two more
quotes from a new kind of science simple
computer experiments reveal a vast world
of new phenomena in their times wolfram
goes on telescopes revealed vast worlds
that had never been seen before through
the ideas of a new kind of science
computer experiments now also reveal a
vast new world in many ways more diverse
and surprising even in the world seen in
astronomy and you know this from
Thunderbolt of the gods the new data
Galileo
great lots of time the new data
Galileo collected in his first few weeks
of telescopic observation overthrew the
Ptolemaic view of the universe have you
accepted for more than a thousand years
so I'm going to conclude with an
anecdote from two weeks ago three weeks
ago at Bard College where I teach and
we're I'm delighted to say all of the
500 freshmen in our Freshman Seminar are
required to read not otto Plato and
Shakespeare Dante and Virgil but Galileo
as the last reading and if suddenly
occurred to me in class as a way of its
saying that what Galileo saw and did
with what he saw can be compared to
something happening in the world today
and I chose tony peratt
as an example Galileo I told them made
his telescope looked through it saw the
imperfect surface of the
it's valets as know this is ruggedness
and was compelled to tell the world of
what he saw and in so doing to overthrow
the Assumption by which the Western
world had lived for almost two thousand
years given it by Aristotle consolidated
by Ptolemy namely that the moon and
everything above it the planets and the
stars fear are perfect they can have no
irregularities either of motion or of
surface that worldview had to be
overthrown Galileo had to tell people
that any of them the doji of Venice or
you can look through that telescope and
see the imperfections of the surface of
the Moon
likewise Stephen Wolfram felt he needed
to tell the world after looking at rule
110 that simple that highly complex
behavior so complex that it's continued
evolution cannot be predicted it just
has to be watched unfolding can be
generated on a computer and cellular
automata and you can see by the mode of
its generation that that complexity came
from very simple rules against all our
intuition finally Tony Moran saw in his
lab the shapes that kept morphing from
one to another as he added more current
then he saw those rock art forms as Walt
had seen from Dave six years earlier and
was compelled to tell the world all
three of them that the sky that ancient
man
saw the ancient sky was not the same as
we see today that is overthrowing a
still dominant assumption and the seers
of those plasma shapes and petroglyphs
have felt compelled to tell the world it
was not so the ancient sky was different
thank you
