[Music]
[Music]
today uh my the title of my program Mars
the great desert is somewhat ambiguous
I'm going to pretty much follow on with
wall and discuss what exactly happened
to Mars and what the evidence is that it
was an electrical event so we can start
by saying that Mars is about six
thousand seven hundred and ninety three
kilometers in diameter which is about
half that of Earth today it's average
temperature is 63 minus 63 Celsius
compared to earth a thirteen Celsius and
the atmospheric density on Mars is
equivalent to standing on top of a
mountain six times taller than Mount
Everest or 1-800 that of Earth at sea
level now in August 12 2005 NASA
launched the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter
on a two-year mission to map the Martian
surface and since then it's been
refunded every year after several months
of flight it entered orbit on Mars on
March 10 2006 now there are several
instruments on board the satellite but
the one I'm going to be discussing today
in particular is the high resolution
imaging science experiment camera
otherwise known as high rise high rises
a half metre telescope in other words
doesn't meet a mirror but a half metre
in diameter and it's capable of
resolving objects as small as 30
centimeters from 300 kilometres up in
orbit it's from that camera that most of
these images are taken this initial
image of course is not taken from the
Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter this is an
image from the Mars Express which is a
mission that was launched a few years
prior by the European Space Agency
now Martian air iographer as well
mentioned tells a story of incredibly
violent events it appears from the
minute many images sent to earth from
high rise that it once experienced
powerful plasma discharges on a massive
Gail and Wahl Illustrated that by
showing the barred spiral galaxy shape
on Valles Marineris as terrain mapping
instruments indicate that's the Mars
orbital laser altimeter or otherwise
known as mola the northern latitudes of
Mars are six kilometers below the mean
elevation of the planet so a great deal
of material was removed from the
northern hemisphere of Mars and then
subsequently redeposited in the southern
hemisphere burned and blasted craters
piles of scorched dust covering almost
an entire hemisphere and great trenches
that went across its scarred face lead
to the conclusion that lightning
thousands or millions of times more
powerful than we know today
devastated Mars Mars our modern science
has retained the longed-for hope desire
long hoped for desire that Mars could be
the cradle of different life forms and
involving in a different ecology it's
often speculated as well mentioned that
the planet must have gone through a
stage where there were oceans of liquid
water there's a lot of disagreement in
the scientific community about such
weather such volumes of water could have
ever existed on Mars surprisingly in
conventional science there's
disagreement in the March 5th 2000
edition of 2007 edition of Scientific
American it was reported that most of
what has been interpreted as water based
erosion on Mars could have come from
quote dry avalanches of dirt the authors
expressed serious doubts about whether
observations have demonstrated any
effects caused by liquid water Allan
Tremaine is one of the major geologists
from Houston's lunar and planetary
instrum Institute and he wrote the idea
of it being liquid water was a very
reasonable hypothesis to start with but
from my standpoint liquid will acquit
water hasn't been proven at all now the
large-scale structure of Mars with its
continent-wide Canyon gigantic volcanoes
and monstrous fish
this is the tractus container region on
Mars I know you probably can't see the
scale bar down at the bottom but this
area is approximately 10,000 square
kilometers so that is a very large
structure right there now when an
electric current passes over a solid
body it can erode material from it or
deposit material on its surface where an
arc makes contact the pits are craters
left by electric arcs are usually
elongated circles because the arcs
strike at right right angles to the
surface while they move and material in
the bottom of a crater or a trench such
as tractus gatina will probably be
electrically heated burned and melted if
the surface is positively charged arcs
tend to stick in one place resulting in
increased melting while the electro
dynamic forces lift the surface to form
what's called a lightning blister or a
Fulgham aiight fog lights appear as
domes and pedestal craters on Mars and
the largest scale example of a Fulgham
aiight is probably the gigantic
structure called olympus mons on Mars
what's erroneously called the largest
volcano in the solar system if the
surface is negatively charged electric
arcs tend to move rapidly after striking
and carving out a crater small craters
on the rims of larger ones are signs of
this effect sometimes as electric arcs
travel they cut chains of craters and
tractus Catina as you can plainly see is
a long chain of craters of a varying
proximity the huge Canyon at the bottom
of the screen is you I don't know if you
can see it clearly from where you are
but it has little points at periodic
intervals matched by little points on
each side of the on the other side of
the canyon rim and that indicates that
these are elongated circles budding
against each other so actually the
tractus Catina region representing ten
thousand square kilometres are is
composed of chains of craters
NASA scientists often refer to what they
find on Mars as mysterious or puzzling
with long years of research and
contemplation ahead of them the reason
for the confusion is the problem of
reverse application earth should not be
used to explain the solar system the
read geological patterns found elsewhere
deserve alternative viewpoints so you
can kill the spot here's a closer view
of tractus Catina you can see at the
bottom where those points are located
there you know right in this area here
and they go along the structure and
along the rim as well in various places
you can see what most of us are
referring to as dendritic ridges
dendritic ridges because these are
electrical formations are most likely
fulgurites or scars left by lightning
bolts embedded in the walls after the
electric arc has removed and material
from the bottom and you can see that the
bottoms of this trench as well as the
bottoms of the craters are scoured clean
there is very little of anything in the
bottoms and on the sides of the crater
walls indeed there are also foger i'ts
embedded in them as I said tractus
Katinas a huge structure I think the
only other one larger would be Valles
Marineris and some of its tributaries
like Kandor casma well Mars has very
unusual features as well and besides
tractus Catina and some of them are what
planetary scientists refer to as dunes
now these dunes are unusual in the fact
that they don't move
and as we get closer to this structure
here you can see that this particular
dune is actually stuck to the side of a
ridge and I don't know how a loosely
conglomerated pile of sand is going to
stick to the side of El but that's
apparently what has
in here obviously the material was
melted and blown by anionic wind where
it then reconsolidated stuck to the side
and all these vast fields of dunes that
you see on Mars in many cases have a
crust on top of them and here one of the
things that I'm going to point out
that's important is that that like nilly
Patera this area where the opportunity
Rover was traveling near Victoria crater
traveled through a field of what they're
calling dunes for as far as the eye can
see as you can tell here these are piles
of hematite which in reality is iron
oxide so and these white patches that
you see in between the hematite and as
you can see here these patches of white
are in reality what they call a pavement
of silicon dioxide so on Mars in vast
areas are these piles of hematite on top
of silicon dioxide so you have a
conductor of iron on top of an insulator
which is silicon dioxide that's what
they form semi conductors on and as I
mentioned this is near Victoria crater
many people have probably seen pictures
of that now this this is Becker el
crater on Mars and this is the floor of
Becker el crater one of the interesting
things about the craters on Mars is
first of all most of them are quite
large Becker el crater is a hundred
kilometers in diameter and it was
supposedly created by the impact of an
asteroid but if you look at crater
impacts that are caused by asteroids you
do not see this chaos on the bottom of
the crater you see a relatively humpy
looking or a scooped out formation but
here you see complex structure and this
is another one of those unusual aspects
of Mars when I first saw this picture
and by the way these are high
camera pictures that are over seven is
700 megabytes in size so you're able to
zoom in and result and look at images
only a couple of meters in diameter so
we're gonna go pretty close in this one
I hope your eyes can keep up so here as
we get closer eyes when I first saw this
I thought these dark bands were layers
of dust and in fact these are this is
called layer ring by the planetary
scientists due to wind erosion but as we
get closer we see that these so-called
layers are in reality pits that have
been eaten into the surface and these
pits form all the layers these are
terrorists layers formed by these burned
pits all that dark material is burned
and scorched you see here that there are
political structures there's little
points on a lot of these mesas so-called
mesas and these layers go on and on and
on and on their so called layers and
what this tells me
and if you'll also notice that the
bottoms of these depressions are clean
and if you go even closer I can't go any
closer for you because you would
virtually have to cross your eyes to see
the things as you get closer and closer
but this whole region here is composed
of fractured polygonal blocks the entire
surface is fractured political blocks
most of them are square now this is a
photo micrograph the scale is 10 micron
the scale bar is 10 microns right down
there so this is an extremely small
region and this is the surface of
material that has been sputtered now
sputtering is where you have a substance
like aluminum and you want to deposit it
on a substance that doesn't normally
accept aluminum plating like a piece of
plastic and you put that in a chamber a
vacuum chamber you apply an electric car
to the source material that converts it
to a plasma and then the plasma deposits
on the other charge surface which is the
substrate plastic or some other material
and as you can see the surface of the
sputtered material is looks remarkably
like some of the images that Monty
showed of his a nodes from the sapphire
experiment
there are pits and cracks and other
formations led that look like ridges and
cliffs and craters with arcs runner with
cracks running through them now this is
an area on Mars called what is this area
on Mars go yeah this was an unnamed area
this is just a this is this has a number
yes peeve underscore 0 to 100
underscores 20 to 50 so they didn't
really they don't name this region but
as you can see the remarkable similarity
here between these two formations one is
a hundred square kilometers here and
this is 10 microns but the the features
are virtually identical you see the
branching burned scars the pits the
features that look like cliffs and
ridges and you know it's virtually
indistinguishable if this were presented
to you in black and white side by side
with a 10 micron scale bar to that other
image you would be hard-pressed to
determine which was which now one of the
reasons I mentioned the vast fields of
hematite and the insulating substrate
like silicon dioxide is that I'm going
to discuss a phenomenon in science
called the Rosen's vegan stability now
dr. ronald rosen veigue was from MIT and
he conducted many experiments in ferro
hydrodynamics
now the Rosen's vegan stability is this
is a quote from his book is a prominent
example for a surface driven instant
where the deformation of the surface is
amplified by an external generalized
force in this case electricity the
normal magnetic field and finally
settles at a spatial pattern so what's
happened is because this conductive
material is sitting on an on a
insulating substrate when exposed to
electric currents it acts like a
magnetic fluid because it's it's
ultrafine dust so it acts like a
magnetic fluid and it's influenced by
magnetic fields and there's his book
Faro hydrodynamics probably looks weird
with 3d glasses on here's another
example of Ferro hydrodynamic pattern
and once again this is a little bit
larger it's 10 times larger than the
other image this is a hundred microns
still smaller than the width of a human
hair so you're looking at Rosenzweig
instabilities in a fluidized magnetic
substance in this case it's iron oxide
nanoparticles suspended in a viscous
liquid
now when the the rose's vegan stability
occurs when a perpendicular magnetic
field of whatever strength encounters a
conductive medium now here corresponding
to this this is an area on Mars called
Kandor casma cantar chasm is quite large
but it's a mere tributary to the Valles
Marineris feature and as we get closer
you start seeing some very interesting
patterns forming here look at there
there's roses vegans stabilities in the
surface of Mars they're identical to
that ferromagnetic fluid that we just
saw they line up they travel there
they're there everywhere on Mars they're
often called spiders in some cases
Martian spiders and they are an
electromagnetic phenomenon this is due
to the fact that the surface of Kandor
casma is covered in the ultrafine
hematite
that makes up the vast fields of dunes
that I showed you that opportunity
crater or opportunity Rover is rolling
through and this is candor casma oh yes
candor casma the Valles Marineris
tributary now here's another example of
the Rosenzweig instability and this is
on a ferrofluid now ferrofluid is once
again a nano particle magnetic fluid
magnetic fluid with iron oxide in a
colloidal suspension when a
perpendicular magnetic field is applied
it forms a lattice and this is the
Rosenzweig instability it settles into a
common pattern and in this case there
hexagons and one of the major things I'm
going to discuss is hexagonal formations
on Mars
due to the Rosen's vegan stability
acting on the fluid eyes dust because
ultrafine dust if it's conductive it
magnetically conductive will act like a
fluid and you've probably all seen that
by moving a magnet across iron filings
they'll follow the magnet and flow just
like the liquid so here this is an
unnamed crater near ohm Olympus Mons
there are so many craters that it's
difficult for them to keep up I guess
with names start naming them Bill and Jo
so wall had or was it dawn had a slide
that Mel and CJ ransom had created of an
object Mellon's and CJ had created a
circular formation blasted into the
surface of a substrate with an electric
arc now you see here here are circular
formations blast it into a substrate
with an electric arc and you'll notice
the texture oops don't want to get too
far ahead you'll notice this texture
surrounding the entire region these are
all once again blocks fractured blocks
and they have an odd
radial pattern extending out from the
crater itself
now look at this the entire crater wall
and the fact the regions surrounding it
it's as if this crater is is isn't
separate from the surface surrounding it
there's no real demarcation here it's
just you have a flat surface and then
suddenly you have a depression than
another depression and another
depression and in though on the wall are
hexagons now in some cases you might see
among the hexagons Pentagon's or squares
and depending on the strength of the
perpendicular magnetic field a lower
strength field will create hexagons
slightly higher will form Pentagon's and
the highest fields will create squares
this is a region called SETI Mensa and
once again these formations are referred
to as dunes by planetary scientists
however if you look at them closely
these are not dunes this is etched into
the solid rock there's no tuning here
this is all electrically excavated and
it's highly organized as well it doesn't
look so organized from this scale
although you can start getting hints of
it and as we get closer you can see that
there are definite lines of demarcation
between regions and here at the closest
scale indeed what do we see here we see
hexagons and if you could look even
closer you can see that this whole
region is composed of hexagonal patterns
they're slightly elongated in some cases
in other cases they're a little
distorted because another hexagon has
been I don't know what the word would be
not blasted into it but if evaporating
out the material is missing there some
of it is gathered into concentrations on
the edges of the formations and that's
probably some of the hematite dust that
was scoured out of the surface and then
subsequently pinched together and left
behind after the arts passed on but it's
really amazing how much of
this surface is hexagonal now we come to
a crater in shepper le basin a lot of
people have probably seen this one
NASA advertised it quite heavily as
proof of the layering the sedimentary
layering on Mars because these
concentric rings are supposed to be
where a meteor impact blew out material
how it did it in concentric rings I'll
never know but the other thing that's
odd is this is not a depression here in
the middle this is a mound and if you
look closely you can see that this has a
spiral pattern and as dr. Wolfe I
believe talked about spirals are very
prevalent in nature and electricity
creates spirals also once again you see
the dunes but look here these are not
dunes these are cuts in the surface
they're not depression or piles of
material these are where material has
been definitely excavated away you can
also see the rim of the crater
I use the word crater advisedly I could
say circular formation but that gets a
little awkward everyone knows crater and
you see here once again that these are
this is not a depression in the center
these are stacked terraces once again
just like we saw in Kandor casma here
you see a mound of scorch dust that's
been obviously cut away somehow and then
the ionic winds blew it off to one or
other directions closer still you start
saying oh look at this we've got
hexagons on these ridges and you've got
these little points too just like we're
in tractus Catina so this tells me that
this is a chain of hexagonal craters in
some sort of circular formation how this
could be created I have no clue and I
don't think anyone really
because no one has really experimented
with electricity on a planetary scale I
mean we don't know how electricity
behaves at certain scales sure we can
demonstrate effects in the laboratory
and I can show you those
photomicrographs and compared them to
the macro scale but in reality we're
only guessing when we talk about
electricity at these enormous gales
this is the closest image and it's plain
that these are hexagonal formations and
they circle the whole crater now here's
another example of the Rosenzweig
instability these are oh I don't know
what the scale is on these but they're
not very big this is about the size of a
petri dish now the the horrors of the
perpendicular magnetic field as you can
see has done two things depending on the
strength of the field it's created
depressions on this side and mounds on
this side and these mountains have these
points in the middle and you'll often
see on Mars and even in the desert
southwest of the United States you'll
see Mesa formations that have 45 degrees
shoulders and then straight up will be a
needle or a an angled block like in
Monument Valley for example and I it's
my contention that some of those are
probably representative or frozen vegan
stabilities because Rosenzweig for a
theory says that you need a fluidized
ferromagnetic material and indeed the
desert Southwest is composed of iron
largely it composed of iron oxides
hematite and magnetite that's where we
mined a lot of iron and we mined a lot
of iron in some other areas but I won't
get into those at this point now the
reason I showed you this one is this is
a region called Gore di dorsum and on
Mars and once again you can see the
political patterns as you get closer and
closer this
this was tentatively identified by
planetary scientists as dried mud like
you would see on a plane after a rain
and it got saturated the mud would break
up and curl up and form unusual
formations but as we get closer here you
can see that this is no way dried mud
these are not cracks these are ridges
separating these domains that exist side
by side with one another now this was
obviously a very strong electromagnetic
field because the primary formation here
is Square and these knife-edged ridges
that outline each square are what are
often referred to in modern geology is
hot backs their their ridges that run
for long distances and have a knife edge
which and there are somewhat mysterious
to geologists because erosion is
supposed to be a blurring process of
blurring and a rounding process sharp
needle forms gradually erode down into
blunt dome forms steep-sided valleys
gradually erode down into wide Plains
and sharp sharp River courses gradually
erode down into lazy meanders but in
reality when you look at the
particularly the Southwest and some
mountain ranges you see that without
fail they are sharp and pointed now if
erosion of wind and water is supposed to
create blurring rounding flattening and
these formations have supposedly been
exposed to wind and water for 500
million years one would expect that they
would no longer have sharp needle shapes
however that doesn't seem to bother
anyone once again here's another example
of the Rosenzweig instability and this
has created somewhat of a rosette
pattern with ridges converging on a
central depression here's another
structure on Mars this is
let's see this is in Utopia Planitia I
believe or this yeah this is utopia
planitia and once again you see that
there's this rosette pattern embossed in
the surface and surrounding it are all
of these elongated channels they're
supposedly once again caused by drying
you know the surface was once wet and
it's all dry but as you get closer just
to ancillary to the rest of the slide
you can see that these are trenches and
in many regards they are also a chain of
craters if we could get real close to
some of these areas for example here you
would see that this is a chain of
craters and it also has a similar
structure to what was a Gore di dorsum
these names now we're gonna get closer
still here and you can see once again
here are the hexagons they're all over
this region they're also in the
background as well but as I mentioned
it's very difficult to get close enough
to see some of these structures without
having without your highs crossing out
of your head and on the bottom here you
have ripples this is why I don't know
these are also called dunes
I guess there's just no other thing to
call them and they are actually embossed
in the rock you see here also that the
region if I were to back up a little bit
for a long longer view you see the
region is relatively clean there aren't
any fields of debris around here there's
no blast debris starting with large
boulders and the next thing out into
smaller and smaller objects this had
this once again has obviously been cut
into the surface now you see here to
some of these channels run right through
the structure they're just like this
this is almost like an area where the
electric arcs that were carving this
region suddenly stuck maybe there was an
excess positive charge in this region so
the arcs stuck briefly and maybe jumped
around a few times
with the end you can see here that
there's almost a logarithmic spiral
effect here it may have actually then
drilled its way in toward the center
before extinguishing I'm actually going
a little faster than I thought oh
there's the closest imaged yet yeah here
are all the hexagons and there are some
Pentagon's mixed in here as well but
it's just remarkable to me that what is
considerably nothing more than solid
rock can be so affected by electric
fields and then forming political
patterns and what must have happened is
that the material was somewhat vaporized
or converted to a dust like state and
then re-solidified after the arc was
quenched this is another example of the
Rosenzweig instability that people may
have seen this is a ferrofluid and you
can see that the cells are hexagonal and
these points come out of each of them
now this is an area called Utopia
Planitia
these regions this is supposed to be
faulting this is all due to faulting and
subsidence and what they call mass
wasting which is the sliding of material
down a slope and this is supposedly what
caused all these ridges but if we get
closer here you start seeing evidence
that maybe mass wasting or faulting is
not really responsible for this because
you start seeing these areas of scorched
dust and if this was faulting you would
expect that a fault would occur right
along here where the area's upraised but
no these ridges run up and down and up
and down and off to the side down in
here is a huge depression filled with
this black dust but the reason i'm Chive
chose
this image is because we're gonna look
more closely at some of these so-called
fault ridges I swear sometimes I think
NASA doesn't even look at their own
pictures because if you look at there
you go this is not a fault don't they
know geology here here again if I okay
here I'm almost done here again we see
that you've got some of these notches in
the ridges these are not really
Nachi but if you get even closer you see
oh my goodness these are hexagons
hexagons and pieces of hexagons the
hundred and twenty degree angles are
everywhere because of course that's what
a hexagon is composed of is 120 degree
angles and in fact on Mars 120 degree
angles are everywhere you find them on
earth too everywhere you go mountain
ranges in particular seem to have ridges
that meet at 120 degree angles I
happened over here two people talking
earlier about Shiprock New Mexico and
indeed one of the things that I when I
wrote my article about Shiprock there
were there is a hundred and twenty
degree lava dykes extending out that are
knife-edged and stick out of the ground
they call them lava dykes shift rock is
supposed to be a pluton that was
subsequently eroded the sedimentary rock
was eroded leaving it exposed to the
elements but once again it's all pointy
it's not rounded and blurred and they
mentioned that there are invisible lava
dykes - that form
hexagons around Shiprock so as we get
even closer you can see that the
hexagons become even more prominent you
know it's almost like a sawtooth and I
think this is as close as we get right
here you can see here's a perfect
example right here these are everywhere
anywhere you see these long extended
ridges you're going to find these
hexagons notches in the top and this is
due to the perpendicular magnetic field
accompanying the electric arcs because
electric arcs in
hinge on the surface at right-angles
well we had one more closer still you
can it's just further evidence that
these are hexagonal formations now
here's an example of the hundred and
twenty degree angle formation and a
magnetic fluid this is what they call a
heel a Shaw chamber
it's got mag electromagnets surrounding
it and this is a ferrofluid being
exposed to a 100 kilohertz electric
field so as it evolves you can see that
definitely we're getting hundred and
twenty degrees vertices here and we're
starting to form the semblance of a
hexagon and this is the effect of
vertical of perpendicular magnetic
fields on ferromagnetic substances and
again here nature prefers spirals
this is the Rosenzweig instability
another example of the Rosenzweig
instability is upcoming and this one
will actually illustrate how the
perpendicular magnetic field can take a
nun consolidated substance like a
geomagnetic powder geomagnetic
ferromagnetic powder this is 1000
microns now you can see the
instabilities beginning to form as the
magnetic field strength increases it's
actually pulling the magnetic particles
into a hexagonal pattern and in many
cases on Mars you'll find those sorts of
structures and that's all I have
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
