the dance of the planet
so regular and predictable one might
think they've moved like this forever
what a contrast to things claimed by the
first astronomers of ancient Mesopotamia
and numerous cultures that followed they
watched planetary motions with a
compulsive fear why would diligent
astronomers insist that the planets were
the towering gods of a prior time
planets ruled the destiny of kings and
kingdoms and they were the agents of
doomsday the end of the world what was
it about planets that inspired such
reverence and fear the Babylonian
priests astronomer Burruss said that
planets moving on different courses than
today produced world catastrophe in
Greek Roman and Gnostic thought this was
ekber OSIS a catastrophic meeting of the
planets but the memory of planetary
disorder is echoed by numerous ancient
sources
Plato expressed it and so did soro
Astrium texts the Hindu Mahabharata
Taoist teachings and the Chinese bamboo
books far from the spotlight today
researchers are exploring these
questions of planetary history they
bring wide-ranging backgrounds from
comparative mythology to planetary
science and plasma physics all are
asking if the solar system may have been
unstable in the past alive with
electrical activity allow this question
to be asked and the doors open to a new
understanding of the past of planetary
history and the rise of civilization
itself
when we hear the word civilization most
of us think of new technology economic
advances rapid communication and
expansive metropolitan vistas but
earlier civilizations are much different
and they pose a mystery yet to be
resolved early civilizations were
obsessed with the past all looked back
to extraordinary events to an age of
gods and wonders all insisted that
powerful gods ruled for a time then went
away
monumental cultures arose and the
monuments themselves meant much more
than a display of technical skill a
monument commemorates something
collectively remembered it was obsessive
acts of remembering that shaped the
early civilizations from the cities of
Egypt stretched along the Nile to those
of the Fertile Crescent of Mesopotamia
from India to Southeast Asia and China
and no less so in the Americas from the
early predecessors of the Aztecs and the
Maya to the archaic cultures of the
central Andes all reveal a desperate
urge to recover something lost
Egyptian priests called this lost epic
the age of the primeval gods it began
with the rule of an earlier son God
autumn who later departed cuneiform
texts speak of the God on who ruled with
terrifying splendor then fled the scene
the Greeks celebrated the lost age of
Chronos but he too was replaced by
another power the towering Zeus sages of
India likewise remembered the rule of
Brahma though the God progressively
faded into the background so to the
Chinese saying D in Huangdi the Aztec
Almaty aatul and the Maya its am nor all
either departed for remote regions are
faded from their original prominence
through festivals and symbolic rights
the cultures remembered the lives of the
gods with every temple construction
every sacrifice every harvest every
installation of a king every royal
marriage every New Year Festival the
celebrants reenacted critical turns in
the lives of the gods themselves
were you to remove the stories of the
gods there would be no cultural content
left in the early civilizations
who were the gods and why did the early
astronomers declare that the most
powerful gods were planets here's a clue
the mythic accounts are punctuated by
terror and cosmic violence urgent
prayers and hymns reenacted the deaths
or ordeals of great gods recounting how
one world age passed violently into
another
