an electronic circuit on the other end
usually incorporates some device that is
enables the circuit to amplify that is
to say a very small change in one
variable over here creates a very large
change in a variable over there and one
of the typical things that we add to an
electric circuit in order to make it
into an electronic circuit is a
transistor I maintain the surface of the
Sun exhibits the properties of a
transistor is it a transistor no of
course not but this presentation of mine
that I'd like to show you this morning
it came to me when I saw an analogy at
least I think I saw an analogy between
two things and I firmly believe that
important discoveries breakthroughs in
science are made by somebody who can
look at an area over here and an area
over there and recognize recognize
similarities between those two disparate
areas of science and if you can
recognize a similarity between a problem
that's been solved over here and one
that hasn't been solved will be there
maybe you can use those techniques over
here and get some progress I hope I know
that for example Hannes Alfven did that
he was a Swedish engineer and they were
having all sorts of problems on the on
the high voltage DC transmission lines
in Sweden and this is an example of one
of those disasters one pole to switch
over here one pole of the switch over
there the switch is wide open but the
current says I ain't stopping and so you
got this arc and it's a sort of
self-sustaining arc eventually it'll
blow itself out and when it does it will
probably create an explosion which in
many instances killed people blew up
buildings and was a major disaster
Alf Ian was able to find out what the
cause was the cause was energy stored in
the magnetic field around the
transmission line and one
when the circuit refused to to open that
inductive sort of like a a water hammer
in a hydraulic system there was an
explosion and the disaster occurred
Althea said well that kind of arcing
there is sort of similar to the
prominence arcing and that we see on the
Sun and when that prominence expands
like that arc and breaks we have a
mission of stuff which is called a CME a
coronal mass ejection
as long as it's up there by the Sun we
don't worry about it too much if it
happens in Sweden near Eric village we
do so but nevertheless the the response
of the the causes of this
it was Alfie Enfield the same cause
magnetic field energy that caused the
the problems with the transmission line
well I'm trying to convince you that an
analogy exists between our Sun which is
our local star which we all know pretty
much looks like this if you look at it
through a backyard telescope you see
that that's the photosphere occasionally
you see some some sunspots if you've got
a good enough telescope you can see some
structure around the usually around the
limbs but you can't see anything else
and so you conclude well that's the
surface of the Sun well it's not the
surface of the Sun because there are
other things above that layer and this
is what we typically see in photos here
it gives us all the light and the
electromagnetic radiation we receive but
it's not the top surface the Sun surface
really has three main layers and there
they are
this is a sketch you can see the curved
surface of the Sun is the yellow the
earth is in here to scale by the way it
shows how small the earth is in
comparison to the Sun there's the
photosphere that's that layer that we
that surface that we see and by the way
and I'm not going to continually bug you
with this but
at every step along the line of my talk
here there should be a question in the
back of your mind how does the standard
model explain that and I'm not gonna
continually poke at them but I think you
should keep that in mind the standard
model I'll say it once that I will do it
again
has no explanation for why the
chromosphere exists the chromosphere is
this set of spicules or spikes and stick
up we can see them during a total
eclipse of the Sun and of course above
that is the vast corona
that we all know about this photosphere
has sun spots the chromosphere has
spicules and the corona has these the
shape has caps and striations and
filaments if we look at the photosphere
close up to a really good telescope we
see that it has a granularity to it the
astronomers call those granules
well my hero Ralf j√ºrgens took a look at
that and he said that to me looks like a
plasma plasma cells and so he then
investigated what a real plasma
discharge looks like in the laboratory
and what the structure of it was he
concluded that these cells were really
what we'll talk about is anode Tufts
it's a tough thing that's seen in the
laboratory if you have a good enough
microscope and you can look at the anode
very closely if you look closely at this
picture you'll see that between the the
anode Tufts between the granules there's
our black channels that permeate and run
and separate the Tufts and within those
channels can you see the tiny little
white dots I don't know if they if you
can see it or not those are the spicules
so the question arises well what are
wire why is that stuff there what is
what are the spicules do do they how do
they contribute to the action the Tufts
come and go over periods of like a min
minutes hours perhaps a day but
more than that these toughs they are
plasma and they are in the arc mode you
know there's three modes of plasma arc
glow and dark current this is the
powerful arc mode and that's why all of
the heat and light could radiator from
this area the temperature though is
about 6,000 Kelvin which is it's pretty
hot I wouldn't want to be there but it's
as far as temperatures of plasma is
concerned and certainly temperatures of
the Sun's corona are concerned it's very
cool
there's the plasma discharge that out
that Jurgens looked at in the in the day
so in the beginning of the 20th century
even in it back in the 19th century
people were very concerned about the the
cathode and what was the structure of
the charge layers and and voltages and
forces at the cathode they did they paid
relatively little attention to the anode
the the Tufts are represented by this
anode globe which we see notice that the
thing is this structure this plasma cell
the anode blow is separated by a small
distance from the anode itself in the
electric star the ectric sky excuse me
the electric Sun model the anode itself
is the body of the Sun here are the the
Tufts and then right connected to and
emanating at a further distance from the
Sun itself is this positive column the
positive column is another cell of
plasma it's in the glow mode and has
certain properties that we'll discuss
but the typical sunspot there is a
typical sunspot you can see the the
Tufts around here in the penumbra of the
Sun sunspot the Tufts look elongated and
in the middle of the the Umbra the dark
part of the sunspot there are no Tufts
so bear that in mind a sunspot is a
place where
there are no tufts there is no tufting
so what well we'll see the chromosphere
is that a bunch of spicules here's an
example it looks like a prominence
beginning here that's about 2000 3000
5000 kilometers high the Sun of course
is like eight hundred thousand
kilometers across so it's a relatively
thin zone the chromosphere it's
generally h-alpha
if you have that's H alpha is a spectral
line right in the middle of the visual
it's a in the red red the deep red color
there's the spicule is about that that
high it's usually full of entry you can
see the streaks it's not just a uniform
glowing as fingers and there's a reason
for that and it's well known plasma a
property of global plasma that they
usually filament seen only during
eclipses again I ask the question why is
it there it changes shape depending on
the weather it's a time of active Sun or
or quiet Sun this is what it looks like
during the quiet Sun this is what it
looks like during the active Sun the
active Sun is a time when there are a
lot of sunspots the quiet Sun there are
much fewer sunspots
you can see here one thing not really
germane to what I'm saying but you can
see the magnetic fields that are are
also filamentous what you're not looking
at the magnetic fields by the way
astronomers say that all the time that's
not true magnetic fields are invisible
what you see like here is plasma which
is surrounding currents in in that
follow the magnetic field so it's the
magnetic fields they're a current
follows the magnetic field and lights up
the plasma so we can see it here's the
big one of the biggest problems facing
modernist solar astronomy
and that's this Sun temperature profile
this the if the Sun is a just a furnace
that burns hydrogen it turns it into
helium much like a wood furnace turns
wood and carbon and oxygen you know as
you get farther away from that furnace
you should get less radiation you should
so the temperature should go down and as
you begin to go away
right here that's exactly what does
happen but all of a sudden there's an
anomaly and the farther you get away
from this stove the hotter it gets
temperature goes up until finally when
you get out here at the top of the
spicules the temperature shoots up to
like a million Kelvin now that is not
how how can you get a high temperature
like that I would I was here when the
the temperature of the photosphere is
only about six or seven thousand Kelvin
good question and I will endeavour to
say why
