welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info on May 12th 2013 a series of
powerful solar flares begin to erupt
from sunspot AR 1748 over a period of 48
hours the sunspot produced a total of
four x-class solar flares the most
powerful type of solar flare known to
science the proton storms that solar
flares and CMEs sometimes produce can
potentially affect life on Earth as
evidenced by the one-hour radio blackout
associated with its latest solar
activity some CME's have astonished
mainstream scientist by reaching the
earth in a matter of minutes to
understand the potential dangers of such
events let us first consider the
electrical model of the Sun this model
says that the Sun is a highly charged
ball of plasma the charge is reckoned to
be somewhere around 10 to the 19th
coulombs now CME is an event that for
some reason indicates a rupture in this
skin of the Sun and so the Sun kind of
burps out a huge bubble of high energy
high intensity plasma when this material
streams away it's quite spectacular and
it can be dangerous to life on the earth
CME's are categorized into three
categories a c-class low energy Class M
class which is the lowest class that can
really affect things on earth our radio
transmission and satellites and so on
and then the high energy class is the X
class and X class CME's can be very
dangerous you need to understand that
there's almost in
infinite directions from the Sun that
things can go in and the earth is like
this tiny little Bibi miles and miles
away so we would almost never get hit by
a rifle bullet fired from the Sun but
since CME's come off in a huge bubble
why we can be intersected but most
CME's of course miss the earth now
talking a little more about the
structure of the Sun a salient point is
that the Sun has a radial electrical
field and gives off electrical particles
which are called the solar wind and
these things accelerate away from the
Sun and when they pass the earth they
are going 200 times as fast as they were
when they left the Sun it's just absurd
to think that there is anything other
than an electrical field that can
accelerate electrical particles in that
fashion now one of the most dangerous
aspects associated with some solar
flares and some CMI's are what are
called solar proton events and sometimes
we can get a burst of proton particles
called a proton storm and these can do
great damage and they arrive not in one
to three days but within fifteen to
forty minutes this just amazes
establishment science to gain
perspective on the potential threat
Assia me might pose to earth let us
consider the historical precedent
provided in 1859 by the Carrington event
in 1859 two astronomers in England one
in particular named
carrington I happened to be watching the
Sun and witnessed a huge flare and real
strong brightening of visible light
soon after witnessing that why then the
earth experienced severe magnetic
effects and at the time of course we did
not have the same technology that we
have today probably the highest level of
technology that we had that was affected
was the telegraph lines Telegraph
service and those of course picked up
what's called a geomagnetic induction
current that caused some havoc with the
Telegraph service and disrupted it
partly at times during the event but
also it allowed the operators to use the
Telegraph equipment without the
batteries being connected
so a CME that engulfs the earth kind of
buckles our double layer and it produces
spectacular aurora in the north and the
south the bad part is that an event of
the magnitude of the Carrington event
would in the blink of an eye send us
back to the Bronze Age and here's why
the modern power grid especially in the
United States and the grids are similar
elsewhere have power lines attached out
overhead at distances criss-crossing
nearly two hundred thousand miles
this grid acts as a giant antenna system
which would easily pick up the electric
currents induced by a geomagnetic solar
storm we've already experienced a sample
of this when in 1989 Quebec experienced
a power outage because of a CME the
hydro-qu√©bec outage resulted from the
malfunction of more than 15 discrete
protective system operations from the
initial event to complete blackout only
one and a half minutes elapsed hardly
enough time to assess what was occurring
let alone to intervene the u.s.
electrical system includes over 6,000
generating units more than 500,000 miles
of bulk transmission lines approximately
12,000 major substations and innumerable
lower voltage distribution transformers
all of these can serve as potential
geomagnetic induced current entry points
from their respective ground connections
so at high risk today is our network of
extra high voltage transformers that
operate approximately three hundred and
forty thousand volts and above spread
around the grid these house sized
transformers cost around twelve million
dollars and of course their manufacture
is highly specialized and the
replacement delivery time takes about a
year and wouldn't you know they're
manufactured in India and China
Carrington event would bring down our
grid which is very much our dated and it
would generate powerful GICs or
geomagnetic induced currents that would
burn out these extra high voltage
transformers the North American grid
meltdown effects would be like this
the monetary loss resulting from just a
year long electrical blackout across
half of the United States could easily
be measured in trillions of dollars the
loss of electricity disables much of our
civilized life-support system including
portable water production and delivery
waste and sewage treatment and disposal
refrigeration would go down hydrocarbon
fuel production transport and delivery
would cease to a large degree of course
heating the modern heating equipment in
residences and businesses are all
initiated and controlled by electricity
food production would be disrupted food
storage transport delivery and
preparation affected firefighting rescue
and emergency service would be almost
totally degraded communication because
cell tower and cell phone functionality
would be gone in a few hours
television transmission would be a goner
with only limited Radio surviving for
those with battery receptivity financial
transactions would be immediately
limited to hard currency mode with the
normal banking services completely lost
computer telecommunication and network
functionality almost completely gone
and finally medical treatment severely
hampered with medication supply to run
out in about a month now harking back to
the Carrington event that event was so
severe people that were connected to the
wires a telegraph system and other
equipment were shocked if they were
grounded some were stunned and the
reports are that some were even killed
so if we dropped everything if our
government said forget about doing much
of anything except let's all concentrate
on getting our grid back up the most
optimistic estimate is on the order of
weeks or a few months because no
business wants
to have a stockpile of 12 million dollar
house sized replacement units sitting
around the US would be severely set back
if we did have a Carrington event and
put it into a global perspective if 50%
of the electrical grid around the world
went down we just probably wouldn't
recover for a long long time we would be
back in the Bronze Age so what to do
NASA is currently implementing a project
called Solar shield which is designed to
provide warnings to vital systems after
an earth affecting CME occurs since CMEs
take one to four days to reach us from
the Sun an early warning system has some
possibility of ameliorating the effects
if we were really wise we would shut
down and disconnect vulnerable equipment
but that's a massive step to take in
disrupting the whole fabric of our lives
and the fabric of our businesses on just
the possibility that those things are
going to be at risk and going to be
affected also at risk is satellite
functionality that would further
eliminate communicational capability the
Global Positioning Systems would go down
I will leave it to your imagination to
think about doing without electricity
for three months or longer
for continuous updates on space news
from the electric universe stay tuned to
Thunderbolts dot info
