December 2010 Russian astronomer Leonid
Elenin announces the discovery of a new
comet roughly 400 million miles from
Earth
calculations show that the comet moving
on a highly eccentric orbit will
intersect the orbit of the earth based
on the size of its coma most astronomers
viewed the comet as typical and
unexceptional suggesting a body two or
three miles wide but the projected
earth-crossing orbits sparked an
outburst of internet rumors and doomsday
predictions most remarkable with the
suggestions that the comet was a rogue
planet and claims that it would
profoundly disturb the Earth causing
earthquakes or a shifting of the poles
and even the end of the world
respected astronomers were dismayed how
could such scientific illiteracy attract
millions of viewers to Internet articles
and videos
experts reminded us of the trivial mass
of a comet just two to three miles wide
passing millions of miles of Earth
as it turned out what actually happened
to Elenin posed a profound mystery for
common science
in the summer of 2011 Elenin grew
brighter than expected and astronomers
began to anticipate a respectable show
but the situation changed when a
powerful coronal mass ejection erupted
from the Sun
on August 19th the CM II struck the
comet Elenin the comet flared brightly
appearing to disintegrate explosively
while rapidly dimming before it was
visually lost against the glare of the
Sun on October 24th only days after the
expected closest approach to earth
Italian astronomers captured the remains
of Ellen and on film an extremely faint
and diffuse cloud of dust was all that
could be seen how did the disintegration
and virtual disappearance of Elenin
occur the answer appears to lie in the
role of charged particles in an
electrical event
popular astronomy imagines comets to be
dirty chunks of ice moving through
electrically neutral space but a growing
number of electrical experts say that
comet nuclei are negatively charged they
say that a comet begins discharging
electrically as it moves more deeply
into the electric field of the
positively charged Sun when the charged
particles of a coronal mass ejection
struck the comet Elenin the oppositely
charged nucleus could not withstand the
electrical stresses it disintegrated
like an exploding capacitor
Electrical theorists assure us that
comets are not what we were taught in
school no practical experiment ever
demonstrated that a dirty chunk of ice
would disintegrate explosively under
gentle warming from the Sun
one of the strongest challenges to
astronomers assumptions occurred in
December 2011
that was when the Comet Lovejoy plunged
into the atmosphere of the Sun its fate
seemed certain
but to the amazement of astronomers the
comet emerged in spectacular fashion
it's pale undulating violently under
electromagnetic forces then separating
from the nucleus only to be reborn after
the emergence of the nucleus from the
Sun
the explosive demise of comets cannot be
due to solar heating in fact eruptions
and comet disintegration have occurred
and regions so remote from the Sun that
warming is not even a factor we saw one
of the most improbable flaring in the
case of comet Halley a regular visitor
to the inner solar system in 1991
five years after Halley's closest
approach to the Sun it was well beyond
the orbit of Uranus where temperatures
hover around minus 330 degrees
Fahrenheit it erupted producing a dust
cloud a hundred and eighty thousand
miles across
if thermal stresses are excluded it
seems that only one consideration
remains shortly after the Hali outburst
a few astronomers began to wonder could
charged particles from the Sun be a
factor at the time solar wind activity
had peaked at a higher level than had
been seen in decades then two
astronomers observed that the charged
particles of a powerful solar flare on
January 31 would have likely reached
halle around February 12 the date of the
outburst the coincidence of the outburst
with that arrival seemed too great to
dismiss
could electrical events be the key to
comet outbursts and fragmentation to
this day astronomers have no explanation
for the sudden and spectacular
brightening of Comet Holmes in 2007 it
had been moving rapidly away from the
Sun for about five months when its coma
size suddenly grew by a factor of a
million making it even larger than the
Sun was it a coincidence that just two
days before the Comets display there was
a sharp spike in the output of the solar
wind in the electrical view the sudden
arrival of charged particles from the
Sun will explain what otherwise would
have no known cause electrical surges
and capacitor breakdowns go together
high-tech image processing later showed
that the nucleus of homes had broken
apart with many fragments contributing
to its brightening confirming a general
pattern comet's flare brightly when
breaking apart
in 1976 comet West brightened greatly in
a series of outbursts perhaps a dozen or
so then shocked astronomers by breaking
into fragments warming by the Sun is not
a reasonable explanation of such events
when comet for tannin fragmented it in
1957 it was just inside the orbit of icy
Saturn much the same occurred in the
case of comet Biela Bamberg
more than once comets have broken up at
their greatest distances from the Sun
well beyond the orbit of Neptune and
when breakup occurs the fragments have
separated and inexplicably high
velocities mainstream theory has no
explanation for the energies driving
such events
the progressive disintegration of the
comet Schwartzman Bachmann three
beginning in 1995 left astronomers
grasping for answers a 150 million miles
away it brightened spectacularly shining
hundreds of times more brightly than
expected then astronomers discovered
that the comet had broken into at least
four pieces then in 2006 the Hubble
Space Telescope captured the spectacular
disintegration of the comet in progress
while it was still out beyond Earth's
orbit
it was then clear that the comet had
broken into more than three dozen
fragments as how sized chunks of a comet
appeared to disintegrate completely some
within the span of a single day
remarkably similar to the fate of Elenin
was the explosive demise of the comet
linear in July 2000 like Elenin linear
entered the inner solar system from its
outermost regions on a highly eccentric
orbit for the electrical theorists that
means a maximum change in the electrical
environment as it approached its
perihelion some 70 million miles from
the Sun it flared
then rapidly disintegrated then came the
announcement that the event produced an
explosion of x-rays at the interface of
the debris cloud and charged particles
from the Sun intense interfacial
energies of this sort up to the level of
x-ray emissions can only be the
signature of electric charge exchange
the disintegration of Lennear provides a
strong parallel to the story of Elenin
the teardrop form of the flare and the
relationship of the flare to
disintegration are virtually identical
all that was left of lennier was a cloud
of dust the expected abundance of water
was simply not there and what of element
as reported by Leonid Elenin himself the
expected water vapor was missing
and so the mysteries of comets deepen
and the most urgent need is to
reconsider the nature of comets as a
whole
it's now clear that comet outbursts did
not occur because of surface warming but
charged particles exploding from the Sun
are implicated in cometary outbursts
insulating material around a charged
body gives way under an electrical kick
or spike the point is well illustrated
an electric discharge at Stone Ridge
engineering here blocks of acrylic are
bombarded by high-energy electrons
creating an internal cloud of charge but
nothing spectacular happens until the
blocks are tapped sharply with a
metallic spike then charge is released
through instantaneous breakdown and
fracturing the Lightning pathways of the
fractures frozen into acrylic the
energies of electrical breakdown and
fracturing of this sort will not just
explain the flaring and disintegration
of comets but the remarkable velocities
at which the fragments separate it seems
that anomalies are just too easily
ignored or forgotten but recurring
anomalies can be the door to discovery
what better way to move science forward
than to start with the forgotten
question what is a common
how are comets formed what holds the
cometary coma in place against the force
of the solar wind
how're the long filamentary tails
created and maintained in the extreme
vacuum of space what force creates and
confined the powerful collimated jets
from the nucleus where is the water-ice
of which all comets were supposed to be
constituted
if charged particles from the Sun are
triggers for outbursts or disintegration
of comets the behavior of these bodies
has almost nothing to do with relative
masses or surface temperatures and
everything to do with the electric force
above all else we must now ask what is
the Comets place in the electric
universe is it possible that one
question could remove all of the
anomalies that one answer could explain
the flurry the fragmentation and the
catastrophic demise of these cosmic
intruders
