Welcome to Space News from the Electric
Universe, brought to you by The
Thunderbolts Project at Thunderbolts.info.
In a Space News episode, earlier
this year, we reported on the mysterious
sounds associated with electromagnetic
phenomena in Earth's atmosphere. In
addition to centuries-old accounts of
strange noises,
apparently connected to earthly auroras,
we discussed the electro-static noises,
reported by some witnesses, of spectacular
meteors. Today, a new scientific study,
published in the Geophysical Research
Letters, argues that the sounds
associated with some meteor sightings
are the products of electrical activity.
As reported by Science magazine, "As a
meteor streaks through Earth's
atmosphere, it ionizes the air around it,
splitting it into heavy, positively
charged ions and lighter, negatively
charged electrons. The ions follow the
meteor, whereas the electrons are
deflected by Earth's magnetic field. That
separation of positive and negative
charges in the meteor's wake produces a
large electric field that drives an
electrical current." The authors state that
the electric current launches radio
waves which are then conducted through
nearby objects producing audible sounds.
This explanation brings mainstream
scientists much closer to the Electric
Universe interpretation. A key difference
is that, according to Electric Universe
proponents, any object that comes far
from Earth will be differently charged
and can discharge electrically when it
enters the atmosphere. In the 2005
Thunderbolts Picture Of the Day article,
The Peekskill Meteor, authors Michael
Armstrong and Jim Payette suggest that not
only the electrophonic sounds of meteors;
but also their bright glare, flare-ups
and disintegration, involve electrical
discharge activity. They state, "One
proposed explanation, with which the
Electric Universe would agree, is that
meteors (and spacecraft) trigger the
formation of instabilities in plasma
layers. The energy of the flickering and
flaring, as well as of the low-frequency
radiation, comes more from the
ionospheric plasma than from
the meteoroid. The meteors that we've
come to think of as 'burning up in
the atmosphere'
may instead be the targets of mini-
thunderbolts from the ionosphere." For
many decades, institutional science has
imagined that spectacular meteor
explosions occur when fast-moving bolides
encounter extreme pressure, heat
and chemical reactions when passing
through Earth's upper atmosphere. But
this interpretation has left many
unresolved mysteries. In fact, the most
renowned of meteor explosions, in modern
times, leaves many facts that beg for a
new interpretation. In 1908, in a remote
region of Central Siberia, a blue-white
fireball, which some described as
brighter than the sun, exploded with the
force of a 10 to 15 megaton hydrogen
bomb.
The explosion felled some 60 million trees
across an area of 2,000 square
kilometers.
Yet some trees near the blast center
were not burnt and a ring of burnt trees,
circling the epicenter, was left standing.
The thunderous clouds were accompanied
by a shock wave that knocked people off
their feet and broke windows hundreds of
kilometers away. The explosion registered
on seismic stations across Europe and
Asia and as far away as Britain;
Meteorologists registered fluctuations
in atmospheric pressure. The resulting
pulse of air pressure circled the earth
twice and astronomers observed, for
several nights afterwards, a glowing red
haze in the upper atmosphere though they
were not aware of the cause at the time.
Curiously, as noted in the Australian
Journal of Astronomy in 1993, the Sir
Douglas Mawson expedition in Antarctica
reported an extensive auroral display a
few hours before the Tunguska event. Many
historical accounts also exist of
strange weather, including lightning and
thunder, and even seismic activity, well
before the devastating explosion. Despite
occasional claims to the contrary, no
impact crater for the intruding body has
ever been found nor the remains of an
impactor.
Well, some have occasionally claimed to
have discovered Tunguska meteorite
fragments. Nevertheless, Tunguska remains
officially classified as the largest
impact event ever recorded on earth. In
the Electric Universe theory, the energy
released from an intruding; comet,
asteroid or meteor; is not limited by its
mass and kinetic energy but also the
electrical energy due to its charge
differential with Earth. This stored
electrical energy also explains the
astonishing effects of the comet
Shoemaker-Levy 9's explosion as it
approached Jupiter; including the
completely unexpected dramatic
brightening of the gas giant's radiation
belts. Similar effects were seen on Mars
when the close passage of the comet
Siding Spring "blew away part of Mars'
upper atmosphere." Calculations of the
mass and size of the Tunguska bolide based
solely on mechanical considerations
cannot be accurate.
These principles were more recently
demonstrated in 2013, when a meteor
exploded in the sky over the Urals
region in Russia. Thousands of homes and
buildings were damaged and more than
1,400 were injured by an explosion that
produced as much energy as two dozen
Hiroshima-sized atomic bombs. The object
is said to be the largest to have
"struck the earth since Tunguska." It's
important to note that, based on
infrasound data from around the world,
NASA scientists stated that the
meteorite had to be about 1,000 times
larger than they originally thought,
based on the object's visual trail. As
Wal Thornhill explains in a 2003 article;
In the study of meteors, a key element
that institutional science has long
overlooked is, "The connection
between ionized meteor trails and
electrical discharge activity in the
ionosphere. The meteor trail acts as a
giant lightning rod that connects the
conducting ionosphere to the upper
atmosphere. If the earth is an electrical
body in an electrical solar system, it is
the equivalent of a temporary
short-circuit of a giant capacitor. The
current flowing along the meteor trail
gives rise to the unexplained brilliance
and long-lasting glows of some meteors.
It causes them to disintegrate like an
exploding capacitor, high in the
atmosphere.
The Tunguska explosion was probably the
most noteworthy example of the effect."
Increasingly today, scientists are
proposing electrical processes as the
answers to long-standing mysteries on
comets, asteroids and meteors; revealing a
slow, yet inevitable, recognition of our
electric universe. For continuous updates
on Space News from the Electric Universe,
stay tuned to Thunderbolts.info
