[Music]
[Music]
more than two centuries after Benjamin
Franklin flew his kite the origin and
behavior of lightning continues to amaze
and to puzzle the lightning specialist
lightning will occasionally imprint its
distinctive form on terrestrial surfaces
and even on the scan of humans in the
laboratory the counterpart to lightning
is the Lichtenberg figure perhaps the
most common and fascinating form taken
by electric discharge dendritic means
treel ike branches and dendritic forms
can be easily confused with fracturing
the dendritic patterns seen here are not
fracturing as the term is normally
understood but electrical breakdown
channels on a polycarbonate plate
Georg Christoph Lichtenberg appears to
have been the first to demonstrate the
different forms taken by dust on
positive and negative surfaces a line of
investigation later followed by others
but with no impact on planetary science
late in the 19th century industrialist
Lord William G Armstrong explored the
power of electricity to produce
exquisite forms on surfaces of different
charge the feathery qualities of
Lichtenberg figures on a negative
surface would be compared to the morgue
and Hritik patterns on a positive
surface at Stone reg engineering the
technology of Lichtenberg figures has
produced an art form
lightning captured and clear acrylic
blocks
the blocks are bombarded by electrons
from a five mega volt particle
accelerator arriving at nearly the speed
of light but coming to a stop within a
fraction of an inch into the block a
cloud of trapped negative charge here
the event producing the dendritic
channels is triggered by a simple stroke
of a metallic pin that is all it takes
for a breakdown of the insulating
material and a nearly instantaneous
release of charge and dendritic channels
[Music]
millisecond lightning storm frozen into
the acrylic block
[Music]
the branching of the electron channels
gives a spectacular fractal pattern
apparently occurring all the way down
the scale to the molecular level from
what we have earlier presented it is
evident that planet wide electric
discharge created vast regions of raised
and Lichtenberg figures on Mars
[Music]
laboratory experiments show that in
regions of positive charge
dust will typically gather into raised
Lichtenberg formations standing out from
the surrounding terrain in fact sharply
sculpted dendritic Ridge systems are
abundant on Mars showing up wherever the
highest energy events are implied the
great trench of Valles Marineris is an
extraordinary example here we find the
raised Lichtenberg figures exactly where
we would expect them running down from
sharp cliffs and high points in
predictable patterns stretching for
hundreds of miles along the trench yet
strangely the mystery receives almost no
mention by planetary scientists
[Music]
we also observe dendritic ridges on the
great mound of olympus mons both on the
miles high scarp and on the caldera
walls
[Music]
[Laughter]
in fact the mystery is global we see the
same pattern on the walls of major rills
we see it along the so called fractured
terrain of noctus labyrinth as' and
everywhere on Mars we see the dendritic
patterns reaching down from towering
cliffs and mesas we even see such Ridge
systems descending from the rims of
large craters opening the door to a much
broader perspective on crater formation
[Music]
in the hypothesis presented here many
craters on Mars were produced by the
same electrical events that created
chains of craters and a great variety of
channels or rills
[Music]
as a discharge column sputters across a
surface its diameter will vary with
discharge energy and a narrowing or
pinching by the induced magnetic field
the pinching effect will be most
strongly focused at the point of contact
with the surface the sputtering arc will
leave a unique signature in the form of
scalloped walls popular explanations say
that surface collapse must have produced
these cratered channels
[Music]
but scalloping effects on Mars are by no
means limited to chains of craters
planetary scientists cannot agree on the
forces that created this bizarre channel
network north of Valles Marineris other
channels that are said to have been
caused by fluid flow either water or
lava exhibit the same scalloped walls
similar neatly cut scallops appear on
the cliffs of towering mesas
and the so called calderas of the great
mountains of mars reveal the same
pattern
[Music]
even the celebrated Victoria crater
supposedly formed by impact exhibits
alcoves and scallops similar to those of
the great rills and valleys and the
scalloped walls of Zoo Neil crater are
virtually indistinguishable from the
scalloped walls of Valles Marineris
[Music]
additional patterns enter the picture as
well including a consistent global
connection between scallops and
dendritic Ridge networks
the explanation appears to lie in the
fractal nature of cylindrical current
sheets
current flow can metamorphosis into
secondary cylinders in fractal-like
substructures to be pinched by the
induced magnetic fields into a narrow
highly focused discharge we see this
interplay of different scales in the
cylindrical currents of Earth's Aurora's
as charged particles enter and exit the
polar regions in an electric circuit
invisible current sheets magnetically
pinched at Earth's poles divide into
visible curtains of secondary cylinders
[Music]
all dancing in the turbulence of Earth's
upper atmosphere
the same electromagnetic structure
arising from charged particle movement
will at times be seen in the electrified
tails of comets
[Music]
in the largest-scale events carving the
surface of Mars we envision multiple
columns of charged particles being
pinched into a narrow discharge at the
surface
this established principle will be
crucial to comprehending the giant
Valles Marineris with all of its
accompanying chasms smaller scallops
within larger scallops they are the
imprint of pinched cylindrical currents
constituted of smaller cylinders the
pattern occurs repeatedly and is surely
no accident
consider the consistent relationship
between the scalloping effects and
Lichtenberg Ridge systems the most
prominent of these dendritic forms are
those that separate the larger scallops
the smaller dendritic ridges define the
boundaries between smaller scallops at
both scales the ridge networks can be
seen as the final events and
catastrophic discharge activity as
charge redistribution gathered and fused
to loose material into the familiar
Lichtenberg patterns
[Music]
in this revision of margin history
contradictions find a unified resolution
in an electrical cause enigmatic craters
crater chains indirect ridges scalloped
craters calderas and rills all are
connected to the observed behavior of
electric discharge here is an image of
electric arcing to a negatively charged
surface capturing the feathery discharge
glow or Corona the corona is constituted
of extremely fine air like filaments
radiating from the primary streamers
[Music]
on a surface affected by electric arcing
experiments show that regions of
localized charge can attract dust or
sediment into a record of the electrical
activity or discharge pathways now too
many fine details
[Music]
here is a ridge complex on Mars covering
thousands of square miles
[Music]
the ridge forms have puzzled planetary
scientists for more than a decade now
[Music]
since standard geology does not include
such forms this unique behavior is a
logical test of the electrical
hypothesis examine closely we see
perpendicular hair like filaments
illuminated by the Sun
[Music]
confirming an electric discharge
attracted dust and to raised relief
[Music]
this exotic formation was produced
electrically by DZ Parker on a CRT
screen showing a gathering of dust in a
region of previous discharge activity
the ridge with its fine filaments offers
a striking counterpart to the baffling
margin formations
we have suggested that the northern
hemisphere of Mars was eroded
electrically to a depth of five miles or
more as seen on the global elevation map
it is only reasonable therefore to look
for transitional zones on the margins of
the more depressed or heavily eroded
regions
[Music]
if the erosion was electrical what
should we expect to find particularly in
the regions that separate the low-lying
northern latitudes from the elevated and
densely cratered southern hemisphere we
should expect to find what we do find
vast regions from the equator northward
join the predictable phases of
electrical erosion first electric arcs
raking across the surface created a
network of channels cutting the region
into discrete blocks then the arcs
acting on the sharp edges of the blocks
continued to extend the valley floors
leaving separate angular islands
the islands standing out above the newly
excavated terrain were then
progressively eroded into various
pyramidal forms then mounds as electric
arcs continued to erode the sharp edges
and finally the remaining mounds were
etched away just as industrial
applications of electric discharge
machining can erode high points to
produce a flat surface all that is left
of the earlier margin planes are the few
scattered remnants of sculpted mesas and
Bluffs disappearing altogether in the
flat depression farther to the north
[Music]
this transitional process can be
observed across great distances on Mars
with a consistent pattern highly
cratered elevated plains to the south
giving way to isolated blocks then mound
then the smooth lower terrain that
characterizes so much of the Northern
Hemisphere
[Music]
in early 2004 the Mars rover Opportunity
returned images that alone could alter
our ideas about the recent history of
the solar system the rover had landed in
a crater and scattered around the walls
of the crater were a multitude of BB
sized spherules their blue grey color
set them apart from the reddish hue of
the iron-rich Martian soil thus the
informal name given them blueberries as
opportunity rolled across the margin
landscape it found a profusion of the
little spheres that apparently occupy
the margins surface by the trillions
but how were they formed not long after
the discovery of the margin blueberries
dr. ransom set up an experiment to test
the effects of electric arcs on
different materials he obtained a
quantity of hematite roughly comparable
to the Martian soil and blasted it with
an electric arc the results were quite
spectacular embedded in the soil were
perfect counterparts of the margin
blueberries from what is now known about
the Martian surface it's clear that if
the planet was engulfed in electric
discharge this fuels are a predictable
effect
[Music]
Ransome's experiments did not end the
investigation either cameras of the
rover Opportunity captured a flat
floored Channel with parallel sides from
both walls of the channel we observed
jagged Razorbacks one more feature with
no place in the geologists lexicon
but dr. Troy Chen brought and his
colleagues at Rutgers University
recently produced this very forum
Razorbacks and electrostatic experiments
and the researchers did indeed see a
direct connection to the Razorbacks
recorded by opportunity shortly
thereafter DZ Parker also produced
Razorbacks on the charged surface of a
CRT screen both the Razorbacks and the
blueberries point to electrical events
and electrical events are scalable
formations created on a small scale can
also appear on a much larger scale
in fact our orbiting cameras have found
numerous craters with domes or spheres
resting within them looking very much
like the spheres and craters of ransoms
blueberry experiment the pictures seen
here of domed craters on Mars are from
the Mars Global Surveyor but in contrast
to the rover blueberry images the domed
craters range in size from a hundred
meters or less to a mile or more in
diameter
and the pattern occurs even on a larger
scale in the polar region of Mars the
domed craters are up to many miles wide
it is surely reasonable to ask if the
tiny blueberries and the far more
massive domed craters were produced by
the same electrical force acting on
widely different scales in an earlier
phase of global electric discharge one
thing is certain if it was electricity
that sculpted the Martian surface the
events were vastly more dramatic than
planetary scientists have ever imagined
[Music]
