I actually changed the title a little
bit it says was the Big Bang a fizzle in
reality I don't think the Big Bang ever
happens so the the real question is is
the Big Bang Theory of fizzle modern
cosmologists would have us believe that
thirteen point seven five billion years
ago a spot of infinite density and
infinite temperature and infinitely
small for some inexplicable reason
exploded in an event now known as the
Big Bang one way to put it is that in
the being in the beginning there was
nothing and then nothing exploded now
scientists have spent a lot of time
working on this big thing Big Bang
Theory and they've taken it down to an
incredible amount of detail and here's a
short extract I'll just read this from
Wikipedia I hope you don't fall asleep
on me approximately ten are
approximately one trillionth of a
trillionth of a trillionth of a second
after the Big Bang happened and we got
into the expansion phase of the Big Bang
a phase transition caused a cosmic
inflation during which the universe grew
exponentially after this inflation
stopped the universe consisted of quark
gluon plasma as well as all the other
elementary particles now I don't know
about you when I first was introduced
introduced to this theory I was
flabbergasted who in the world has the
hubris to think that they can ascertain
what happened in the first trillionth of
a trillionth of a trillionth of a second
of an event that occurred 13.7 5 billion
years ago now there are cosmologists
that have spent their entire career
lecturing on this subject writing books
about the subject teaching their
students grading their grades deciding
whether or not they're going to advance
in their careers based on whether or not
they support this subject and billions
have been spent on machines to try to
figure out whether the theory is correct
we built the Large Hadron Collider we
have incredible telescopes that have
been put up and we have space probes
then they're just trying to earn out the
last few minor
little details about this theory here's
a graph here's a graph showing part of
the progression and you can it's kind of
hard to read but up here we start at 10
to the minus 43 seconds on up to the 10
to the minus 10 seconds finally at about
300,000 years we actually start creating
atoms
complete atoms and then we get into
about a thousand million years after
this occurred we start getting into
galaxies there's a lot of different
charts and things you can find on this
theory and they get there's there's a
wide variety of theories actually out
there but I gotta say that as a person
who was very interested in science and
wanted to study science as a child I was
a little bit jaded by the whole thing
and I started thinking that maybe
there's a better career so I'm much I'm
much different than a lot of the
presenters here I don't have a degree in
physics I haven't written any books and
after trying school three different
times I never really made it through but
I've read hundreds of books I have
enough credit hours to get several
degrees but what happened was and when I
was a kid
this is my story as I found out about
Immanuel Velikovsky and and I know a lot
of people here kind of got their start
into this this direction with Immanuel
Velikovsky and he taught me several
things one thing is that science the
scientists and they're out there that
are publishing all these these documents
really may not know everything I also
learned that in order to derive a
complete theory about everything you
have to include everything so you can't
ignore what the religions and the myths
and the geologists and the
archaeologists are saying if you're
going to create a theory describing the
creation of the universe
so a full understanding requires that we
take into account everything that we've
learned i also learned from Velikovsky
that if you're going to come out with a
new theory or something that opposes the
the mainstream thought it's not going to
be accepted easily and in fact Belikov
ski was vilified for what he wrote
refuse to read his work or even consider
it and the Velikovsky affair where they
talk about science not being able to
accept his theory there's actually a
bigger story than what Velikovsky
himself wrote in high school I was asked
to do a report on a fiction book and I
told my teacher I thought that was a
waste of time and I asked her if I could
do a autobiography on I signed instead
and she go ahead went ahead and let me
do it and there was a quote in there and
it said that when Arthur Stanley
Eddington was asked how it feels to be
one of the only three people who
understand relativity he answered who's
the third now I'm a farm boy from
Colorado and I read this and I thought
how in the world will I ever be able to
contribute to that that line of thought
so instead I figured that maybe I should
get into something a little more real
and I thought maybe designing toasters
would be a lot more rewarding than
studying quantum mechanics or black
holes so I got a job in the
semiconductor industry as an electrical
engineer and I ended up working a lot
with statistical analysis of data trying
to find patterns automatically in
semiconductors there's a massive amount
of data and a lot of it never gets
looked at so I created programs that
would try to find here you see in the
middle the pattern that shows up I also
got a chance to look into plasma edge
equipment and plasma is used extensively
in semiconductor manufacturing to create
the integrated circuits that are in our
phones and our TVs and everything else
and here's an example of a plasma edge
equipment it was kind of fun I got to
change gasp gasps compositions
temperatures RF power and just play
around with it I spent hundreds of hours
looking into these and when I looked up
and saw the twin jet nebula it became
apparent to me that this is not an
exploding supernova this is a plasma
formation I now do contract work working
with highly sophisticated websites that
are data and media intensive so if
anyone needs something like that just
give me a call that
but I very clearly remember though about
five years ago when I was reading on the
internet and discovered the electric
universe theory and this brought it all
back to me this brought back the joy of
science and exploration it was no longer
the science of the advanced mathematics
that no one else can understand instead
it brought it back to the the science
that creates this modern world it's the
electromagnetism that we know about in
our motors and generators and
oscillators transmitters receivers all
the things that have created our modern
world are incorporated into the electric
universe theory it's no longer it's
something that is only the the gods of
the mathematics or the high-end
mathematic people that can understand
even a mere mortal like myself could
understand this and I like to talk I
like a microphone it's fun to get up in
front of a group so I started talking
about the electric universe and I'm as a
member of Toastmasters I had to give
weekly presentations and and I started
kind of branching out and doing service
groups like the rotary group and Lions
group and I belonged to a couple
spiritual groups and there they're all
excited about this and so I started
giving presentations and I kind of
boiled this down oh this will be an
oversimplification but I boiled down the
the two major ideas I see that are wrong
with with cosmology today and into two
concepts and one of them is is that
gravity is the primary force that shapes
the universe and electricity plays no
role now there's a bunch of
presentations on this you're gonna hear
about them from other people these are
kind of some of the ideas that have
fallen out of that and I'm really not
going to cover this any farther but
there's another idea which I felt never
really was covered adequately in these
in these conferences and that's the idea
that redshift can be used to measure
velocity and therefore can be used to
measure distance so when you hear that a
galaxy or a quasar or some object has
been found that's a hundred million
light years away this is the Met that
they're using to measure that and so
some of the ideas that fall out of that
is that the universe started with the
Big Bang
that's because we believe that the
universe is expanding and if it's
expanding then and at some point it must
have all been back together at one point
so there was a start to the universe and
it's been expanding ever since after the
Big Bang and then they discovered that
the rate of expansion appears to be
increasing and if the rate of expansion
is increasing something an anti gravity
like force is pushing the universe apart
and they called this dark energy and
then another conjecture that kind of is
predicated all of this is that matter is
the same across the universe and this
means that a proton weighs the same here
in our galaxy as it doesn't another
galaxy as it does anywhere else now I
don't know anyone that's ever sampled
another galaxy and actually measured a
proton and one of these other galaxies
but this is a very strong underpinning
to this whole story of redshift so you
might ask what is redshift all back back
in 1842 a gentleman named Christian
Doppler took a train a flatbed and put a
band on it and ran it by some observers
and they would listen to it and they all
had perfect pitch I guess and they would
listen to the change in pitch and the
idea is with with sound is that when a
train goes by you hear a triangle you
don't actually need the band you can
forget the band but no train goes by you
hear it it goes and it drops in pitch or
another idea is a car when you hear a
car go by it goes whereas you never hear
a car go free
so there's a drop in pitch and the same
thing happens with light light is just
another example of something vibrating
and up here in this first picture if you
imagine that this galaxy here is
stationary and we are on the earth
looking at it and we see an absorption
line so there's a dark spot that shows
up in the spectrum and in this case
we'll just put it in the middle because
that's a good way to do this example
in this case we have a galaxy that's
moving away from us and that effectively
links it lengthens out this wave a
little bit and that causes the light to
shift a little to the red there's a
little bit slower frequency light
likewise if you have an object moving
towards the US then it's going to shift
a little bit to the blue now as it turns
out almost every object we see outside
of our galaxy is shifted red there are
virtually there are very very few
objects that are blue shifted or moving
towards us and that's why we believe in
the expanding universe this came about
with Milton Humason back in 1927
discovered that these remote galaxies
were red shifted and then George
Lemaitre and I probably dis clobbered
that was a Belgian priest and he
actually proposed this Big Bang Theory
and then finally in 1929 Edwin Hubble
who the Hubble telescopes named after
proposed Hubble's law and and there's
really two parts to the law and that's
all objects in deep space are red
shifted and that's not quiet there are a
couple that are blue shifted but then
also from that he determined that this
redshift is proportional to their
distance to earth so once again when you
hear about objects that are a hundred
million light years away that is coming
from this idea of redshift Carl Sagan
actually in cosmos in chapter 10 quoted
and and I had to cut out a bunch of what
he wrote because Carl Sagan can really
talk a lot I'm not sure he says a lot
sometimes
but the main point is is that Halton ARP
has found enigmatic and disturbing cases
where a galaxy and a quasar that are an
apparent physical Association have very
different redshifts and if this is the
case if a object is the quasars are
supposed to be at the very edge of the
Gallic or the universe there they're so
far away there are 12 billion
light-years away according to
conventional cosmology and if for some
reason you can see a relationship with
an alleged nearby object then
something's wrong with the whole idea of
a redshift and this is actually I should
clarify as recessional red ship or a
redshift of an object moving away or
away from us or towards us there are
other types of redshift there is
gravitational redshift there is thought
to be we'll get into a third one here in
a second with ARP
but at the end it says our if ARP is
right the exotic mechanisms proposed to
explain the energy of these distant
quasars would prove unnecessary now
these quasars are allegedly at the edge
of the universe and yet we can still see
them and if we can see them they must be
incredibly powerful and it was brought
up last night about a quasar that was
thought to be 12 billion light years of
promise and the the web says that it's
20 billion times the size of our Sun has
that has a mass of 20 billion times that
of our Sun and they're thought to be
this water cloud around it of a hundred
and forty trillion times that of the
Earth's oceans and it emanates the
energy I thought this was incredible
anime emanates the energy equivalent of
a hundred trillion of our Suns now this
all comes from the idea that it's 12
billion light years away if it happens
to be much much much closer than
suddenly this could be just a normal
object it doesn't have to be anything
dissing credible because quasar thought
quasars are thought to be the most
luminous most powerful and energetic
energetic objects known in the universe
and that then this brings us to the
whole point of this this presentation is
Hall nerve Halton ARP went to school
in Harvard and then got his PhD at
Caltech and he actually did some work
for Hubble in his early career looking
for Novas
he worked at Mount Wilson in Mount
Palomar as a staff astronomer so he
wasn't a cosmologists sitting at a
supercomputer doing simulations he
actually looked through telescopes and
he created the ARP Atlas superior galaxy
showing 333 galaxies that he thought
didn't fit the model that most people
believed in he wrote several other books
about redshift and a lot of this
presentation is taken from this book
here seen read so what's his evidence
and there's a lot of different evidence
I just have a couple of them up here the
main ones here but one of the main
pieces of evidence is that he has found
pairs of quasars on opposite sides of
nearby galaxies and once again the
quasars are far away the galaxies are
very close how is it that these quasars
could be related to this this closeby
galaxy here's an example missus I see
1767 it's called a cipher galaxy a
Seyfert galaxies is known to emit lots
of x-rays and radio waves and they found
these two quasars right next to it now
what's odd about this is that these
numbers here this point six one six and
point six six and nine are our
indicators of the redshift and if it's a
positive number that means that it's
redshifted is moving away from us if
it's a negative number it's blue shifted
and moving towards us and these two red
shifts are extremely close and the
probability of finding two quasars
opposite a central galaxy with an
extremely close redshift is very very
low and I don't remember the exact
numbers on this but I know he quotes
numbers one and ten thousand one in a
hundred thousand for some of these
different examples I'll show you so the
conventional astronomy said well yeah
but you know it's almost impossible to
win the lottery too but people win the
lottery
and they're right so maybe there's other
proof now I actually thought this was
about quasars as it turns out these are
clusters
of galaxies showing the same type of
effect if you look this is the redshift
of this item is 0.55 and the redshift of
this item is 0.5 9 and the redshift of
the central item is point 0 1 4 so once
again we have two objects and opposite
sides of a central in this case a pair
of galaxies but it shows another example
where there is a galaxy in the middle of
two other objects in this case other
clusters of stars here's a third example
we have these two central galaxies here
in the middle and 474 and n-470 and
opposite it we have two quasars we have
one with a redshift of 0.67 2 and a
fairly close redshift to 0.67 5 now it's
starting get looking little odd that we
keep seeing this exact relationship so
if you would imagine that the central
galaxies here now is a blue house we'll
go back to the lottery analogy we have a
blue house in the middle and we have
twin daughters living on each side of
the house now how often are you going to
find that the lottery winner always
lives in a blue house and has twin
daughters living on each side here we
have another example of NGC 2639 the two
quasars have redshifts of 0.307 and
point 3 to 5 so we have yet another
family that's lucky here here we have
another example with the m95 in the
middle it has 2 quasars on each side of
0.2 0.3 3 and point 0 3 6 but now one
thing I haven't brought up is that not
only are these galaxies or these quasars
found as pairs on opposite sides of a
central galaxy but they are found on the
minor axis of that central galaxy and
this is usually plotted as Halton ARP
when you read his information there was
a surprise when he would you'd be hoping
of course that he'd find that but it
happens again and again and again here's
a little bit different picture we have
and I a lot of items by the way in space
are named after Halton ARP he was a very
famous astronomer at one point he was
rated as being one of the top 20
astronomers in the world and then he
started saying the redshift the theory
of redshift was incorrect
then he was dropped off the chart but
here we see two items again with the
redshift of 1.25 and one point two six
very very close redshifts bound opposite
this central galaxy art 220 so you know
the individual charts are to me
convincing enough but since I did a lot
of work and semiconductors looking at
statistics this chart I don't see how
anyone can refuse this chart and it
shows the relationship of the brightness
of different quasars and the brightness
of a Seyfert galaxies and the
correlation is astounding this is a 1 in
10,000,000 chance
according to Halton ARP that this is
accidental and to me he has some other
charts showing the same type of
information and and of course the way
the conventional scientists answered
this was by not looking at it so then he
started realizing well maybe there's a
little more going on here than just
quasars and he started looking around
and he found many many examples where we
have a central galaxy the central
galaxies minor axis is plotted here and
we see all these quasars or some of mark
quasars but I think in this case they
are and you find out that they're fairly
well aligned along this central axis not
only that but the closest object this
one has a redshift of 2.1 one point four
point eight three point six nine I
should have bought my glasses 0.33 so as
you go farther and farther away from the
central galaxy it turns out the red
shifts go off and drop off and become
less and less and his conclusion from
this is is that we have a central galaxy
here in the middle and it these central
galaxies are actually ejecting these
quasars generally in pairs not all the
time but for the most part in pairs and
so the quasar starts out with a very
high redshift when it's immediately at
the point of ejection and as it proceeds
outwards the redshift drops off lower
and lower and lower it reaches a point
where the gravity of the central
galaxies begins to pull it back and it
starts to come back into the central
galaxy
and at that point it has a redshift very
close to that of the central galaxy he
believes that the at this point of
ejection when the quasars are ejected
they actually have no mass so this gets
back to the assumption we had earlier
where protons throughout the universe
weigh the same regardless where they are
in his theory they are very different
and they actually started out with a
mass of zero which makes it very easy
for them to eject and due to the fact
they have a mass of zero that's what is
causing the redshift and his term for
this was intrinsic redshift instead of
the recessional redshift that Edwin
Hubble talked about well this extended
even further it kind of got to the point
a lot of people say that Halton ARP
cherry-picked is is in his evidence and
that he was looking for these specific
examples where there were blue houses
with twins living on each side and they
won the lottery and but it really got to
a point where people would say well I
found a pair of x-ray sources or I found
a pair of quasars or I found a pair of
in this case galaxy clusters and halton
Arbuckle ah well then that's looking
between them and and find the cipher
galaxy in the middle and this so I think
the instead of him cherry-picking the
data it's almost like the data picked
him so this is one type of evidence and
there's a lot of examples if you read
through his book intrinsic redshift
you'll find dozens and dozens more and
I'm sure that he actually found many
many more examples than that but what's
another type of evidence is that he
actually found visible connections
between alleged nearby galaxies and far
away quasars and an example of this is
Markarian 205 you see at the bottom now
this and it's associated with this
galaxy NGC for three one nine and the
inn for three one nine has a redshift of
point zero zero six which means it's not
hardly red shifted at all whereas
Markarian has 10.0 seven this is a
significant difference they should be
very very far too far apart and distance
from us but there's this luminous bridge
that apparently connects them he's found
these luminous bridges visible he's also
found them an x-ray and they are now
finding these loom
bridges in gamma-rays but the idea is is
that well this is just a coincidence
we're not really seeing what we think we
see and what does it all mean
one redshift is not the the recessional
redshift is not an indicator of velocity
but it's really an indicator of age
second all quasars are not super bright
incredibly energetic objects they're
very close the third one is really
really don't know the age of the
universe we don't know if it started we
don't know if it ended and we will
probably never know we don't know the
distance too many extra galactic objects
and we do really can't see as far as we
think we think we're seeing 12 billion
light years out we may only be seen into
our local neighborhood the Big Bang
didn't happen quasars are actually young
galaxies and there could be in expelled
and there's also if you look at some of
those equations he would say the general
relativity is no longer needed to
explain the galaxy and he really doesn't
talk about the electric universe a lot
in his writings but I know that at the
end he pretty much embraced that this
probably explains a lot of his ideas and
he's often being called the modern
Galileo because Galileo looked through a
telescope and kind of got in trouble
with the orthodoxy of the church hall
NART looked through a telescope and got
in trouble with the orthodoxy of modern
cosmology both of them said we aren't
the center of the universe and we're not
the focal point which I really didn't
get into that proof but in the end
though Galileo went out and I would say
that in the end Halton ARP also went out
and he will get the last laugh thank you
