[Music]
[Music]
so the cultural impact of planetary
history this is a huge subject and it's
been around the catastrophist movement
for decades now and additional nuances
just continually come in to the studies
the research into the effect of
planetary catastrophe on human history
probably the greatest challenge for
someone coming into this subject matter
with an interest in historical studies
more interest in history than say in
theoretical physics is that there seems
to be an incompatibility that these
subjects don't seem conceivably aligned
up to the level at which a coherent
synthesis might be possible but I am
here to testify to the possibility that
a coherent synthesis is possible up to a
level that has never been adequately or
fully appreciated it's possible through
the lens of a new paradigm and that lens
is what give what gave us what gave wal
thornhill and myself the possibility of
a lifelong collaboration it simply
requires us to ask certain unasked
questions have planets always moved on
their present courses
this idea that planets close to the
Earth may have impacted humanity up to
the level of provoking the early
civilizations the whole new cultural
expressions storytelling myth-making
and monumental construction the birth of
civilization itself that consideration
required a contribution from Immanuel
Velikovsky to give substance to this
possibility that planets very close to
the earth engaging each other
electrically impacted cultures the world
over up to the level that history would
never be the same
I was powerfully affected by
Velikovsky's worlds in collision in 1950
he published the book I didn't read it
until 1968 but that impact on me
personally just redirected my whole life
my lifelong interest emerged in a
completely different direction I was the
founder and publisher of a 10 issue
series on Velikovsky that became the
first issue became a number-one
bestseller on several campuses and this
book Velikovsky reconsidered is a
collection of articles from that series
Velikovsky's message in a nutshell
planetary instability within human
memory human memories count as evidence
and electricity was highly active many
people reading worlds in collision did
not adequately
appreciate perhaps that Velikovsky was
vitally interested in the way in which
electromagnetism could answer the
dilemmas that would not be answered
under Newtonian paradigm the comet Venus
nothing seemed more preposterous to
astronomers in this fundamental
challenge left by the Velikovsky
evidence that the words and the symbols
for comets and the stories about comets
were the stories of the planet Venus
Velikovsky insisted that the planet Mars
was intimately involved in a phase of
upheaval the earth and humanity
powerfully affected deeply affected by a
close approach a planet of the planet
Mars on more than one occasion and in
these events he highlighted the role of
the cosmic Thunderbolt which has become
a signature theme for us within the
electric universe movement and for some
of us just knowing that Velikovsky had
an idea about the earlier dominance of
the planet Saturn this was not much in
the public domain at all as I got to
know Velikovsky but I couldn't let go of
the this background conversation that
Velikovsky had things to say about the
original role of the planet Saturn
earlier in the Solar System history and
so I made a special effort to track down
key ideas of Velikovsky on the planet
Saturn I went to the triple AF symposium
on Velikovsky 1974 in San Francisco and
that gave me a really vivid feeling for
the nature of the
the challenge Velikovsky was so he was
so fundamentally dismissed and and the
the conflict so unresolvable that I had
to accept that anything I would develop
in terms of a life's work and I was a
well underway in February 1974 but I had
to just accept that it would be an
extremely difficult challenge to
continue work up to the level of
producing conclusions that I would see
as reliable given the nature of this
huge divide a seemingly irreconcilable
divided between Velikovsky and
mainstream science
I developed a most special interest in
the mythic age of Saturn received a
contract with Doubleday in 1975 my book
the Saturn myth was published in 1980
and then there was a subsequent
evolution of a theoretical framework but
to which I gave the name the polar
configuration I came to believe very
strongly that a focus on a configuration
of planets close to the earth several
thousand years ago just ahead of the
advance of the emergence of the first
civilizations whatever timeframe your
own chronological thinking would put to
the emergence the first appearance of
civilized consciousness with all the
unique emphases on symbols and writing
and ritual practices kingship and so on
whatever that date is it occurs out of a
prior epoch
of history that was much much different
so I want to actually today address a
little bit about the phase before the
rise of civilization which it so caught
my attention everything the Saturn myth
related to the earliest symbols of
humanity expressed by the great
civilizations but it's clear that there
was more to it it became crystal clear
that there are a set of forces that work
against a novel idea in the sciences and
that includes the distal cost of
challenging authorities but actually
hanging even more deeply is cut to the
cost of being wrong
I mean having to recognize that
something was claimed that we had
claimed a high had claimed it could not
be supported and had to be changed now
and the fact is there were critical
junctures in the history of my own
research my personal investigations
forced me to revise things that I had
felt strongly previously a kind of
conviction but that gradually unravels
under further research and then over all
of this there is this huge influence of
the uniformity principle as today so
before we just fire up our computers
feed in the movements of the planets and
we think we can announce where the
planet Mars was in 2020 300 BC something
so fundamentally erroneous in this
assumption that it's just about well
it's the first thing to confront in
serious
search in catastrophist history the idea
that what happened in the past will
happen again also infected all of the
earlier cultures they were all awaiting
the recurrence of doom today they
celebrated it every New Year's the
catastrophic transformation and
reemergence of the world they
constructed on earth sacred temples and
cities as replicas of a formation in the
sky the cosmic temple the cosmic city
and there is a pervasive influence of
this assumption and a kind of
identification between the the motives
of the gods and our own motives so we
grow angry we get married we commit
crimes and so on we argue we go to war
that the gods did the same
as far as the method of the research
that will redeem itself step by step as
an investigation unfolds cross-cultural
points of agreement must be a first
level of the investigation because
that's the reflection of a shared
experience and the subject of this
investigation is entirely focused on a
global experience all global archetypes
must be included because there was a
myth making epic and that myth making
epic is the source of the global
archetypes highest priority goes to the
earliest sources because they were the
closest to the experience and there's an
observable gradual degradation over the
centuries where the archetypes are
progressively lost or adapted to local
circumstances and interpretations so the
authenticity is highest closest to the
event and this is a a worldwide
experience out of which the great
civilizations themselves arose so all of
the defining features of the early
civilizations have to be a part of this
investigation
and that makes unavoidable this
requirement that we be open to new
possibilities because so much of what is
to be explored in the mythic archetypes
globally registered mythic themes will
never find an explanation in
conventional terms no archetype ever
recorded globally in other words ever
identified by cross-cultural
investigation will ever find an
explanation in anything that we
experience today it's it's that
fundamental a
dichotomy and if the events suggested
here actually occurred how could we know
if planets were actually hovering close
to the earth engaging each other
dynamically electrically cosmic
Thunderbolts passing between planetary
bodies how do we deal with evidence that
has remained hidden as evidence for
thousands of years everything comes down
to patterns that have no explanation but
must have an explanation because they
are global and they are all inseparably
connected to each other
acid tests of a new perspective an
emerging reconstruction of the ancient
past will have to integrate a field of
evidence ranging from archaeological the
historical testimony respect is from
earth become absolutely essential
laboratory analogies of discharge
phenomena are equally essential
planetary science the features on
planetary surfaces that are not
explained in the terms of the
uniformitarian principle radical
alteration of surfaces and abundant
evidence of electrical sculpting from
one planet to another and of course the
test of logical consistency we do not
indulge contradictive assertions a
contradiction means that a correction is
absolutely mandatory
now let's see I want to go back to a
period of human history with which I had
many conversations with others in the
1970s in the 1980s but when I got into
the birth of the civilizations as a
dominant focus that took over it
precluded me from giving adequate
attention to ideas I had originally
considered and conceived in in advance
of the polar configuration as a
principle and before the counting of
time means there are no there are no
chronicles there's evidence there's
archaeological evidence there are there
pictures carved on Stone but there is no
referent historically no reference
archaeologically to give you a fixed
marker except dating processes that are
themselves subject to a great deal of
criticism but we're talking about before
the birth of the first civilizations a
very familiar form the rotund goddess
I've picked up dates suggested around
3,500 BC I pay little attention to
variations in de Deena I'm just
personally satisfied that we're going to
be going through a period of confusion
as to how you find reliable reference
with respect to dating but this goddess
figure it caught my attention there
there are a few people here I think with
whom I discussed an idea about the
goddess figure the the rotund goddess
the prehistoric goddess before the rise
of the great civilization
there's something compelling and because
I was moving into a sense of planetary
upheaval I couldn't get away from the
idea this possibility that this rotund
goddess figure was actually an earlier
or signified an earlier phase of
planetary alignments or gathering in the
sky in a cloud of dust or gas I never
used in these discussions the word
plasma because I had I hadn't ever even
heard of such a word way back then but
the mother goddess a very popular study
today but look for an explanation of
this strange figure I was in imagining
planets before the emergence of a polar
configuration just immersed in a gaseous
environment presenting many many
different rather weird formations that
suggested to humans on earth perhaps a
feminine form
there's something compelling about the
underlying consistency of the ideas at
the same time the lack of precise Accord
is at least as as obvious but I've never
found in any attention I've given to the
Prius this prehistoric phase and
specifically this mother goddess figure
I've never found anything remotely
satisfying as an explanation other than
this possibility that there was a
celestial condition and planetary bodies
gathered in the sky
fed this human idea of a great mother
now some of you will be familiar with
this form and it where we're out of the
Paleolithic period fully into a
Neolithic phase of human history earlier
the earliest emergency emergence of the
great civilizations in Egypt and
Mesopotamia and this is different
what is opening up here in terms of my
own lifelong work is a sense that
something fundamentally new appeared in
the sky and this is associated with a
Neolithic goddess form you see these
forms heavily emphasized in Egypt for
example from where this comes and I have
asked myself a year after year is it
possible that a coherent explanation of
what occurred between that Paleolithic
cave art phase and then a Neolithic
phase where goddess forms emerge
then quickly there are stories told
about goddesses and so on that they have
no prototype I mean these are the first
stories told by the earliest
civilizations I see that figure of the
goddess is indicative of a transition
but then that drew my attention back to
what is missing in our understanding of
the pre civilized state the artwork the
gathering of artists and caves
painting beautiful images on the walls
of the cave now I want to just suggest
an idea and then see if this can be is
this confined substantiation in some of
the evidence I'll present but here's the
idea there was a phase of history before
the rise of the civilizations in which
the earth moved through a cloud of gas
and dust plus rocky material deadly
Falls of debris from the sky forced
humans into caves and in that
environment of deprivation they
experienced a yearning for what was lost
and what was lost was under whatever
name a culture might use the happy
hunting ground this open expanse of
about natural abundance on earth that
ended in horrific catastrophe driving
human beings into the refuge of caves
the happy hunting ground they yearned
for a return to that human condition of
abundance and natural ease
so having a frame of reference with
respect to the occasion an occasion of
catastrophe forcing humans to retreat
the caves where they yearned for a
return to paradise raises a question
then about that natural environment
we're human beings driven to find that
refuge in a cave nothing speaks more
powerfully for this possibility of
material falling from the sky
threatening life than a dolmen the in
many instances the most imposing
structure is a roof and I could not I
have never found in any specialized
study of prehistoric art and pre
civilized communities I've never found
an explanation that made any sense for
the rise of dolmens I mean all the way
from northern Europe to Korea you find
these things but then also you have the
occurrence of humans retreating to caves
in the American Southwest and so on so
there's something to be explored here
that hasn't even been touched yet in the
conventional treatments of these
subjects and there is also a profound
sense of incompletion a desperation
perhaps to find protection that's not a
completed structure if they're
interrupted
everything is so crude there's no
architectural beauty to any of this so
what was what was driving this human
activity and in a a rather narrow layer
of human history nothing of the sort
before that layer and nothing afterwards
comparable to this isn't this an
indication of a desperation for
protection it struck me then well if the
cave was a place for some humans to
retreat and dolmens were another form of
protection I wouldn't expect to find a
dolmen right outside the cave so it
seemed rather an interesting test and I
haven't found any dolmens that were in
located in very close proximity to a
cave but both the presence of humans in
caves and the construction of dolmens as
protective measures with a certain sense
of desperation implied in the crudeness
and so this was not an epoch of the in
the human past where humans had the
luxury of artistic splendor and so on
which comes very shortly thereafter
was humanity threatened by rocky debris
falling from the sky there's a kind of
transitional phase indicated where
something like protection Iraqi
protection begins to merge with a larger
artistic and maybe even religious
formalism and the nodular temple complex
is a good example of that but one begins
to take the subject up would find plenty
plenty of examples that are suggestive
of a transitional phase I need to jump
ahead here then there is the myth making
a book and this is an entirely new
explosive emergence of imaginative
expression where there's a bit of
absurdity it involved almost nothing is
naturalistic except parts of the human
figures and animal figures that are
combined in these preposterous ways I
was originally I was eventually
satisfied that all of these
representations were due to an
overarching requirement to use
naturalistic symbols to express aspects
of the phenomena being experienced we're
often a mere human figure or a mere
animal in its natural appearance was not
sufficient to capture the country the
complex features of what was being
experienced this is in close this
experience you would place very
close to the beginnings of the first
civilizations with the sense that the
civilizations themselves emerged right
out of this experience
and provoked by this experience
multitude of bizarre combinations of
natural forms that were needed to
capture the details of what humans were
experiencing around the world a bearded
serpent a feathered serpent a fiery
serpent and so on all of the most
prominent archetypal images of serpents
and world mythology are ludicrous but it
is significant that they all exhibit the
defining features of comets with the
first emergence of a language of comets
in the early astronomies the language is
the language of comets was the language
of a planet and we'll get right to it to
that and speaking of absurdity there
there has to be an explanation for the
things that could never make sense in
terms of our familiar reference because
features such as the single eye well
this is worldwide we can't dismiss these
things just because they have this
appearance of absurdity but everything
as it comes to be expressed with the
expansion of artistic representation
everything just appears completely
disconnected from what we know what we
actually observe and yet the signs and
symbols of that human experience are
global just shadows
nothing to give them real life or
believability leading to the question
what was the age of gods and wonders
there would not be a civilization
emerging let's just say 5,000 years ago
that failed to remember a mythic age of
gods and worth gods and wonders the gods
ruled for a time and then they went away
now is that a natural story to tell it
just seems too well focused on a human
memory that has to have an explanation
and why did we stop believing in the
gods well we stopped believing because
the natural order no longer supported
any of the myths every myth became
absurd against a test of natural
experience why then the mythic
archetypes not one second here when did
I start 10 19 okay if I could if
somebody could give me a three-minute
warning
I'll have a good sense as to how to wrap
it up ten minutes left super thank you
one of my favorite quotes of all time
all that the earth inherits will be what
will he assures us that's Berossus be
consigned to flame when the planets
which now move in different orbits all
assemble in cancer so arranged in one
row that a straight line may pass
through their spheres talk about absurd
there's no there's no basis in human
experience ever in planetary history
deposit this sort of primeval state of
things and yet it is exactly what we
would expect from the evidence that a
configuration of planets hovered close
to the earth a polar configuration as I
called it initially in 1972 involving
planets in alignment with an axis
running right through the centres of
these spheres and associated with a
primeval time that occurred and then
disappeared fell into confusion giving
way to Wars of the gods archetypes stand
out Saturn as the all-encompassing
sphere of heaven a preposterous idea
Venus the animating heart and soul the
feminine glory of heavens
this was the mother goddess in ancient
Egypt always called the eye of raw raw
the primeval Sun not our Sun today but
the the founder of the world of the gods
in primeval times always associated with
the rise of civilization itself the
connection of Mars mythically to the
innermost reddish masculine heart of the
heart the Egyptian haben Hattie the male
apart within the larger sphere of the
hata heart
and Jupiter hidden behind Saturn in this
phase we never seem to have a sufficient
opportunity to take on the Jupiter
aspects of this configuration even
though from the very first formulation
of a configuration I had Jupiter hidden
behind Saturn and the story is
absolutely fundamental and one of my
promises of the past year that I've
expressed to a few people is that I'm
going to bring the notes on to
out into the light of day because that
started way back in 1972 and there are
many hints of people picking up that
this is actually a critical part of the
story of Saturn Saturn gives way to
Jupiter as a a kind of reincarnation of
himself it's the Jupiter emerges as the
younger version of Saturn and this is
the new year's festival underlying
concept the primeval universal sovereign
gives way to a rebirth of himself and
each of these most fundamental
archetypes reveals an aspect of what
I've called the great conjunction which
defines the polar configuration an
alignment of planets unlike anything
that we observe in our own time basic
themes to explore if you open up this
field of investigation for yourself the
idea of a primeval unity always
associated with the Golden Age
remembered as an undifferentiated form
of the sky great conjunction of the
first time which means the beginning of
time this planetary configuration can be
traced back to the myths and symbols of
how time began that means how the
counting of time began how kalindra chol
systems were inaugurated on earth
central Sun is the heart of creation
that's a global theme and then the
astronomical traditions that central Sun
is consistently identified as the planet
Saturn even Helios was archaic Lee
remembered as Saturn and the central Sun
had a station in the place it was the
axis of the turning sky at the celestial
Pole all of the heavenly bodies moving
visually around that Center the
identification explicitly in Mesopotamia
of Saturn as Hamas the Babylonian
sun-god shamash is explicitly named
as the planet Saturn and of course no
one has ever explained why in various
astronomical traditions Saturn was not
just associated with the Sun but was
located at the celestial Pole the
Chinese one D for example probably out
of this whole field of research nothing
is more important than the creation
legends but the importance of the
creation legends only emphasizes the
essential discovery that the creation
legends emerged out of human experiences
it wasn't remote speculation backwards
or anything of that sort the creation
legends involved human beings recounting
how the gods themselves in the beginning
of time created a huge towering edifice
in the sky as their homeland this is the
land of the Gods the place where the
Wars of the Gods occurred the place of
creation and this evolving configuration
in the sky I have proposed is the entire
subject of world mythology and I'm
satisfied sufficiently now with the
integrity of that evidence to say there
there are no other myths than those that
relate to the history of the book of the
polar configuration no other mythic
archetypes so I'm not making a statement
about a local story or anything of that
sort but if you find a global pattern I
will assure you that it will have an
inseparable connection to every other
global patterns and the net and the
aggregate effect of those connections
will be the story of world mythology
global patterns mean everything because
they couldn't be there without the human
experience that's the idea to carry
forward in this investigation once it
begins to register nothing will look the
same Venus was always the mother goddess
in every land no nothing in the
appearance of Venus that could be
identified either in any I mean from any
vantage point on earth or anything of
that sort would have any bearing on this
universality of Venus as the mother
goddess and Venus as the great comet
there's been a great deal of discussion
of the cometary aspects of Venus you can
find many video presentations relating
to the comet Venus on the Thunderbolts
project website the Thunderbolts project
YouTube channel and so on Mars is the
cosmic warrior wielding a cosmic
Thunderbolt that looks nothing like
lightning cosmic Thunderbolt no
connection to the appearance of
lightning association with the ancient
warrior and identified as the cosmic
mark as the planet Mars Mars also
presented as a great pillar or world
mountain stretching between the earth
and the center of the sky the domain of
the gods themselves in primeval times
I've really not in recent years said
anything about the primeval seven but
people asked people on the Saturn
mythical seven lesser bodies in the
presence of Saturn
what are they and I just identified
as the primeval 7 another worldwide
theme how much how's my time doing right
now bill two minutes perfect the jovian
New Year deserves much more
investigation than has been published
and I do know that there are individuals
who are bringing significant research to
this subject and I hope that folks here
will keep their eye out for the
emergence of this story I do intend
myself to add to this discussion on the
jovian new year myself this is actually
the place for me to stop that all right
two minutes yeah okay
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
