[Music]
[Music]
dr. bill Mullen classics degree from
Harvard in 1968 and PhD from University
of Texas postdoctoral fellow at Berkeley
I mean the man's been all over the place
but he's finally put down roots since
the 80s at Bard College in New York but
we're glad that he uprooted himself long
enough to be here with us today dr. bill
Mullen Thank You Tweedledee so
hieroglyphics and the ancient sky
remembering assimilating easing forever
a little over 40 years ago and as we've
been saying in the Bible 40 years means
a very long time this 40 years ago I had
the youthful presumption to write an
essay entitled a reading of the Pyramid
Texts published in the Talbots Paul say
series Immanuel Velikovsky reconsidered
reading in that title meant of course
interpretation today matured I hope by
those forty years I will be giving you
another reading of the Pyramid Texts and
other Egyptian writings you should be
forewarned that by reading I mean not
only interpreting but also a good
measure of reading out loud with these
texts and therein Cantore rhythms my
interpretation is summed up in my four
gerron's
verbal nouns in my subtitle so
remembering assimilating easing forever
in these gerunds refer to structures of
thought habitual to the priestly scribes
who composed texts for the dead the
same structures of thought I will argue
so as for fundamental and omnipresent
ways in which Egyptians thought
accommodated itself to cosmic
catastrophes and ultimately learned to
cease to fear them to forget them at its
simplest forgetting came to take the
form of the fading away of an earlier
meaning of a single hieroglyphic into a
non cataclysmic later meaning let's
begin by looking at a single
hieroglyphic on the title here the so
called
I of Horus it is a Falcons eye the
vertical line an enclosed area to its
left or plausibly enough interpreted by
Egyptologists as the typical black line
coming down from the Falcons head though
you will find other interpretations in
this room to the right however is a line
curving in on itself a curl and this
line is simply not to be found on
Falcons
I'm sure because I checked with a cadet
and the falconry Club at the United
States Air Force Academy and with due
diligence he sent me copious Falcon
photos and none of which was the
mysterious curl to be seen in recent
work F Cochrane whom I hoped would be
here to speak after me has argued that
this curl is the hair of the comet Venus
whose rampage on earth and sky he
associates with the planet Mars he
argues forcibly in unpublished work but
also in a chapter in his recent 2010 on
fossil God's and forgotten worlds the
chapter the Horus star that Horus is
none other than the name for the planet
Mars and the two goddess Hathor is none
other than the name for Venus the curl
on the eye of horus he argues would be
specifically depicting the hair of Venus
in cometary form
the curl cochran points out can be found
on the red crown one of the two crowns
of the Pharaoh as commonly depicted as
wearing a mysterious curl moving up from
the Crown's base and this curl can be
found in representations accompanying
other hieroglyphic texts independent of
either the Eye of Horus or the red crown
another such glyph is a this is another
this is the second of my Horus with the
red crown the white crown together Anna
on the moving up from the right the curl
another such glyph is a disc with the
famous your Reyes affixed to it on the
far left a Cobra that spitfyre we do not
see such a thing in today's sky the
third gift is a circle with four sets of
parallel lines inside converging on its
center this is on the far right used in
words for city or town it's standard
interpretation is of two crossroads
intersecting enclosed in a disc there's
no evidence of circular walls or actual
streets intersecting at right angles
there any relation to the plan of a
normal Egyptian city Dave Talbot has
shown the dominance of this figure in
cultures around the globe and sees it as
visible in the ancient sky and
interpreted by different cultures as
different forms it does not in any
obvious way depict the way Egyptians
design cities for Talbot it is the
celestial City one of his many
archetypes
which are counterintuitive because they
are not seen in today's world
my final glyph the second from the left
is the simplest a circle with a dot in
the middle to be found as part of the
spelling of the word raw
it is used in everyday phrases such as
rah Neb translating everyday translate
it every day and fitting the context as
such but why a dot in the middle of the
circle
my thesis can be summed up and
symbolized by the last of these
hieroglyphs
if this glyph as Dave Talbot has been
arguing for 40 years
once depicted the presence of a smaller
planet in front of a much more massive
one and we've had the great pleasure of
seeing this in glorious color and just
now a presence of a planet aligned
between it and our Pole and therefore
seen from the earth as it's at its
centre the larger disk the larger planet
and the the discs of the point in the
center or the small circle in the centre
you must also have over long time come
to be used by Egyptian writers of
hieroglyphic language to mean simply the
Sun we see today in other words it was
read by Egyptians as the Sun who's
reliable rising in the east and setting
in the West were symbols of stability
and sent eternity an older understanding
of a glyph had faded into a newer one as
an example of a better and is example of
this latter meaning here is the famous
adoration of Raw at the beginning of the
papyrus of ani adoration of Roffe when
he rises in the eastern horizon of
heaven can you see the the circle with
the dot at the center just as one of
five components of a glyph over the
second word raw all right so we have it
spell it with a mouth and an arm raw we
have the picture raw and then we have
the symbol of a god all right so this is
a perfectly normal use of it in Egyptian
which let me use this one cosmic cliff
now to unveil the four somewhat cryptic
participial nouns or jaren's which form
my subtitle remembering assimilating
easing for every taken as an ensemble I
will argue they bring to the surface
some of the deepest patterns of meaning
in Egyptian texts and in no instance
better than in the process by which this
glyph comes to mean our daily Sun I will
give examples of these Jarrod's at work
from two representative sets of Egyptian
writing an earlier and a later the first
from the Pyramid Texts of the Old
Kingdom specifically from the spells of
the pyramid of who knows the oldest to
contain inscriptions by the way here you
can see a reconstruction the funerary
temple leading down to the Nile the
causeway the mortuary temple greeting
the body or sarcophagus and then if you
look at the schematic diagram once
you've arrived at the enter entrance you
can see a burial chamber I don't know if
I should get into using this or not but
the sarcophagus is brought through here
it arrives at a burial chamber and the
ritual of resurrection is to get the
Kings body out of the sarcophagus at
this western side and move into this
eastern side from which Polaris will be
happy to remember there is an exit for
the Kings soul headed north all right
inside you can see how splendidly
preserved the hieroglyphs are there
stars on the ceiling and various designs
here but then if you look at most of the
wall is perfectly preserved hieroglyphs
only a one break and
this is as though you were reading in
the world's oldest book because most
stable book the pyramid has no space
into which to collapse so it remains
stable and the lifts are in stone and
legible and we can read them today the
second set of inscriptions is from the
book of the heavenly cow in the New
Kingdom I will show you the Helena cow
right now it is from the scene on the a
number of New Kingdom teen tombs most
particularly the Hall of columns and the
tomb of Seti the first and to get a
better glance you can see how the cow is
heavenly or celestial because the bark
of the Sun goes across it like this and
sets there we will come to the story
about how this cow became the heaven on
which the Sun moved in a just a moment I
want to make clear that by using old and
New Kingdom examples I am just by the
way making a point that there's no
essential difference between the two in
other words don't expect that I will
find in the Pyramid Texts secrets about
the ancient sky different than those I
find in the New Kingdom texts alright
this is one pattern I see earlier and
later so let me in a way in a
preliminary way go through my jaren's
with examples in the order in which I've
arranged them I will then use examples
from my two sets of texts to to show
their evident pattern of meaning in the
Egyptian mind and proceed from there the
first round gerund remembering
designates the narrating of these
anomalous events in the sky which
affected the earth catastrophic lay
Egyptian literature is curiously
deficient
in straightforward tales of world
destruction by celestial beings more
often in Egypt such events are just
alluded to in a cryptic phrase or
cryptic if the reader does not already
know the story but both a narrative and
an illusion are forms of remembering and
I will treat both as such by looking at
my two chosen texts assimilating next is
my word for the omnipresent spells by
which the deceased becomes one God or
another in simple declarations such as I
am raw such assimilation is to be seen
in all mortuary texts not just royal
ones as god of the dead Osiris has pride
of place in the Book of the Dead which
anyone wealthy enough could Commission
ascribe to fashion for his tomb in the
well-known papyrus of ani from which I
showed you the first line a second ago
we read incessantly of Osiris on me
doing this or that of the next world
Osiris Omni converted into the god
Osiris assimilated into the great God in
the Pyramid Texts the King is commonly
assimilated into the being of the
greatest of all gods hot war my third
term easing is a short word for a lovely
process it refers to the many ways in
which the deceased is said to be at
peace and at ease peace consists of
doing things deemed Pleasant in Egyptian
life sailing in a stately Barker barge
such as a God might sail in smelling a
lotus playing a board game wandering in
Pleasant fields such as the Greeks would
call elision these mortuary texts allude
occasionally to catastrophes in the for
time the combat between Horus and Seth
or the raging of the eye of the Sun or
the eye of horus but for the most part
they speak of present and it
recurrent serenity the eye of horus is
too clear to have been returned to the
deceased like Horus the deceased has
been judged by the court of the gods and
found vindicated as reward for his
purity the deceased has spells from
mounting to the very bark of the Sun
itself there he is said perpetually to
reverse the sky from east to west in the
company of this most radiantly visible
god of the present the idea of a
perpetual present takes me to my last
gerund a word I made up for evering I
use it as a transitive verb for what the
spells of the scribes mean to affect for
the deceased the King will live for
millions of years in eternity and
everlasting us he's entered a state of
being which is totally secure and whose
changes are only those of a cosmos
dominated by the unending circling of
the Sun psychologically one may say that
all anxiety whether triggered by memory
of world destruction or by the thought
of personal death has been allayed and
once we admit psychological thinking it
is easy to go further in analyzing the
true dynamic of this forever
it is denial a denial enabling amnesia
forgetting so now let's go through
quotations from the two sets of texts I
mentioned at the beginning each of which
represents one or more of the four
processes to which these two texts are
devoted in a brief paper such as this
one you must of course take my word for
it that I have not been selective for my
own purposes
I submit that my reading of either of
these two texts in their totality the
book of the heavenly Gao or the Pyramid
of Lunas will find that my for Gerrans
are the dominant themes and that they
are representative of the body of a
gypsy or Egyptian
mortuary tax as a whole so we begin with
remembering to be red parks and also in
the tomb of Seti the first in the
narrative of how tours destruction of
mankind a story dear to all the test
refers for its explicitness raw the self
begotten and self created and the
creator of mankind by the weeping of his
eye that grown old and weary and it had
come to his attention that humans were
complaining of his age and plotting
against him the Council of the Gods
approved his response that his eye be
brought to him with all its destructive
power
let sure I go forth it wise to the
council and destroy for you those who
revile you with slander for there is no
I whatsoever that can go before it and
resist it when it makes its progress in
the form of hot or hot or and another
version then went forth a segment slew
the rebels so many of them that raw
repented and called her back
come come in peace hot or for the work
is accomplished but the goddess found
the destruction of humans too sweet to
stop she waited about in their blood
until a divine ruse distracted her
Mandrake's and beer were added to the
human blood she had shed and mashed into
a potent brew which made her so drunk
that she lost her interest in her
rampage a remnant of human beings were
left in which rock took no more interest
this narrative contains all the elements
found around the world for a great
memory of destruction visited by sky
beings on inhabitants of the earth a
high God becomes cognizant of the
vicious imperfections of the humans he
created
through his agency some being from the
sky destroyed vast portions of humanity
in the end though the God repents and
relents enough for some humans to be
alive to tell the tale of their distance
to their descendants and in so doing
deposit some kind of meaning for it when
we look for remembering now in the texts
of the Pyramid of Una's
we find the great catastrophes only
tersely alluded to in spells whose
primary purpose is to facilitate the
Kings rebirth and felicity since these
spells are often wrapped repeated in
later pyramids and that of unas was the
name of different pharaohs inserted i
will generalize by referring not to
Eunice but simply to the king and one
extended passage the spells repeatedly
begins king except the eye of horus the
vicissitudes of that eye above all on
the combat between Horus and Seth are
then named in the set of phrases except
the Eye of Horus which went away which
Seth trampled which he pulled out which
he carried off on which he caused
devastation which escaped from Seth
which he rejoined and the so called
resurrection ritual by which the
sarcophagus is brought into the final
burial chamber the Kings Herald tells
him to go to your father to autumn who
has given birth to Horus in his identity
as the one at which the earth shakes and
the sky trembles in such language there
is never an overtly narrative intent the
phrases of the spell subsumed the past
and are always aimed at transformation
of the King in the present I of Horus to
come high and big towards the king
behold King you were more soul and more
in control
the gods of the Mont Nile remembering
thus is for the sake of transforming
cosmic disturbance and in so doing
bringing the king to ease control
exultation my next gerund assimilating
refers to the recurrent assertion that
the deceased is some Godhead or other
the proportion between narrative and
spell are reversed in my new Ingham New
Kingdom and Old Kingdom texts the New
Kingdom book of the heavenly cow
consists mostly of the elaborate
narrative I have summarized after hot
Wars all but total destruction of
humankind we next read of the old sons
determination to retire what he wants it
turns out is to distance himself from
earth and humans and to mount up to a
new sky one provided for him by not at
his command in the form of a cow note
trembled because of the new height of
the sky so rah decreed that supports of
the sky come into being only after a
complex of narrative a complex narrative
of the instating of a new world order
does the instruction briefly turn to the
deceased and provide him with spells to
assimilate him to a godhood I am this
pure magic which is in the mouth and in
the body of raw I am raw the luminous
one I am raw amid his court his nine
made of magic I passed by uninjured I
belong to the flame which the soul of
fire thus you see narrative morphs into
spells by which assimilation to raw is
consummated in the old kingdom the
spells of the Pyramid Texts are likewise
aimed at assimilating the deceased into
multiple gods they contain no extended
narrative but abound in such
assimilations the spells have one
difference from our New Kingdom texts
and the Pyramid Texts the
King assimilates himself not just into
the gods of creation and regularity but
also the ferocious gods who have shown
themselves capable of wreaking havoc in
the cosmos
sometimes he takes on Horus his face and
destructive power the king will come
with his faith that of the great God who
is Lord of rage who grew among the end
who grew strong from the injury to him
Horus will grant you the fire of his I
that it's circle or around that it put
tempest among the evildoers put its well
under the primordial God's he will
strike shoes armed from under the sky
this is one hieroglyphic texts where at
the very end of the second line you can
see for transformations into Horus and
the last hieroglyph is the falcon all
right
sometimes Horus is mentioned only in the
background and the Kings threatening
presence in the sky is claimed as
something unseen before shaking in the
sky we saw something new say that
primordial gods Court are the nine gods
Horus is in the light the King will take
hold of the sky will open its orbit the
king is Bane sometimes the King spreads
terror all on his own the king is baying
to the heart is the son of shoes heart
extended to the limit with scorching
lights the king is the fire and the top
of the wind to the sky's limits to the
Earth's limit when the arms of the
lightning bolts had become discharged
why am need I stress here that the
terror is a new electrical phenomenon I
now enter the second half of my proposed
structuring easing and forever ring the
two gerunds which move away from the
terror in tomb from terror in two modes
of forgetting it
listen to the sweet details of ease
inserted at the final stretch of
narrative in the book of the heavenly
cow in a spell efficacious for whoever
shall recite the words of this
composition behind his ears shall be
pure and natrone and sweet-smelling
salve shall be on his lips he shall be
arrayed in a new double tunic and his
body shall be purified with the water of
the Nile easing in the book of the
heavenly cow has as its conclusion
spells to enable the deceased to move
around after death some of its promises
are negative sentences of protection
such as I pass by uninjured
I belong to the flame which is the soul
of fire
I have no adversaries among men God
spirits among the dead or at anything in
the whole of this land others make more
positive promises as for anyone who
knows the divine words and the spells in
his mouth he can ascend and descend
within the sky the entire composition
comes to an end with such promises short
but decisive in stressing the ease the
deceased may enjoy through its spells to
turn to the Pyramid Texts there are this
easing of the king is not always purged
entirely of catastrophic consciousness
as so often in any court the Kings power
may be part of his beauty as in this
spell how fair the sight how pleasant
the beholding to God say of this God's
going forth to the sky atop him his
souls that he sides his terror at his
feet his magic more often though the
serenity of the king is wedded to his
assent to the company of the heavenly
deities in orderly movement you shall
become clean in the cool waters of the
stars
shall board the bark of Raw on the
shoulders of Horace Oh ferryman who
faces forward fetch for the king the
latter whose name is salve of
contentment on the back of Osiris that
the king go forth to the sky upon it
that he escort raw in the sky we come at
last to the gerund I made I made use of
forever hang in the book of the
celestial cow
the most striking affirmation the king
will take his place forever in the order
of the new cosmos occurs in an
illustration on the wall there the king
shown three times with his skirt and his
urias joins the company of a male God
eternity and a female God
everlastingness and in both cases the
activity is holding up the sky with a
support to show you the next slide your
more particularly are the Eternity with
the name thereof below it's him and
everlastingness with the name below here
so they are joining the king in holding
up the sky all three like shoes support
the new sky which raah has mandated and
which is now made up of the sky goddess
nut as a cow in which - who's in - whose
body rah has retired from earth and the
underworld the accompanying spells can
veil the same message the one who
recites this spell shall live in the
necropolis and respect for him shall be
greater than for those who are upon
earth if they ask what are your names
the answer is eternity in everlasting us
then they are bound to say this is truly
a nod the language could not be clearer
that there is a new world order and that
it is to last for
what we see at the end of the book of
the heavenly cow occurs farm off and
throughout the Pyramid Texts there the
celestial melding of serenity and
orderly motion leads naturally to an
assertion that the new order brought
about by the Kings arrival in the sky
will be stable and at ease forever on
heaven and earth alike he will remain
undisturbed by any memory of terrifying
phenomenon the King's house in the sky
shall never perish the Kings seat on the
earth will never end most tenderly the
king becomes the son of autumn rah in a
perpetual embrace autumn rah your son
has come to you the King has come to you
it resolved him to you encircling with
your arms this is the son of your body
forever we have the same archetype here
as Christ returning to sit forever at
the right hand of the Father so I have
proposed a schematic separation of
smells into four processes or four
gerron's
but we have already seemed some
overlapping and my survey would not be
complete without giving you one example
in which all four gerron's are conflated
from the Pyramid Texts the King has come
from the isle of flame the king has put
order in the place of chaos the king is
he who owns the linens guarded by the
Cobra of fire during the night of the
great flood that comes from the Great
Goddess the King will appear as the fair
god as the water lily at the nose of raw
when he comes forth from the place of
radiance every day there is an implicit
remembering of a deluge brought by a
major deity during the night of the
flood
comes from the Great Goddess note also
that the King is implicitly assimilated
into raw or Horace in his possession of
the Urrea spit fired his enemies but
most of the imagery invokes pleasurable
ease the King appears is the beautiful
water lily which Ross smells on his
coming forth and the final phrase
constitutes the purest
of affirmations of what I have called
forever Aang when it comes forth from
the place of radiance every day here we
have its concise and affirmation as of
the assuring ly recurrent as any that
Egyptian culture was accustomed to make
every day rah Ned as I said at the
beginning is more literally every Sun
and the same disc with a circle at the
center of it is used in the spelling of
raw when he smells the water lilies
fragrance the kinds of language I have
quoted throughout will not be unfamiliar
to any one who has had any exposure to
Egyptian civilization this civilization
claims a long memory of the past it is
replete with humans who are or who
become divinities its elite is
everywhere depicted in positions of ease
except perhaps for the Pharaoh sallies
forth in a decisive battle which
annihilates an enemy armies such as
danger artists images of I would simply
stress that it is the last of my Forge
errands which is the best-known Egypt
has long represented the - presented to
the world a lapidary facade of stability
and perdurable order his prestige
deferred to by such general venerable
Greek visitors as Sola Herodotus and
Plato in conclusion I wish to set up a
paradox consisting of two terms which
seemed at first incompatible but on
further inspection are complementary the
first term I take from Thunderbolts of
the Gods we would not be going too far
to suggest that civilization itself was
a bursting forth of new and creative
forms of remembering all harking back to
some aspect of a primeval conflict
between order and chaos second term of
my paradox is one known to any
philosopher of memory namely that we
remember some things only by forgetting
others memory has to be selective in
order not to overwhelm us
so I would add to the truth of Talbot
and Thornhill sentence and other truth
that civilization was also a bursting
forth of new and creative forms of
forgetting through selectivity and
selectivity about remembering the past
can lead to denial about what is
possible in the future the primary
denial in Egyptian culture is that the
New World Order established by Roz
removal to the sky described in the book
of the celestial cow could ever again be
undone the Pharaoh himself is depicted
as helping eternity in everlasting us
hold up the sky in the illustration of
this book on the tomb walls if the
deceased is to accompany rah in his
barks perpetual daily traversal from
rising to setting and if daily is
expressed in the two words every Sun and
there is nothing to be feared in the
future the Egyptian afterlife may
resemble that of the Blessed and the
Christian heaven but there is no
apocalypse or Last Judgment preceding
the consummation of Christian beatitude
and the beatific vision for cultures
with a profound nur sense of the
fragility of the cosmos in which man is
but the servant of the gods
and a goomy underworld is our last
station one does better to turn to the
civilizations of Greece and Mesopotamia
in Egypt for evering becomes a form of
forgetting thank you
[Music]
