[Music]
is it possible to identify the events
that shape the surface of the planet
Mars
a planet of vast but unrecognized
landscapes Vista after Vista eluding
every attempt to explain them scientists
labor to solve the mysteries through
textbook theory but if as we have
claimed the cause was electrical they
will never get the expected answers many
details of a new interpretation come
from laboratory experiments with
electric discharge but how far can this
new interpretation take us toward an
understanding of Marjan history
one advantage of the electrical
perspective is that it's every
implication can be tested against
massive layers of evidence now available
including wide-ranging experiments with
electric arcs if as we've proposed Mars
was immersed in hemispheric discharged
the planet can be viewed as a laboratory
in space for testing the electrical
hypothesis as seen in lightning displays
electric arcs exhibit dendritic
branching of Lichtenberg patterns these
look very much like the dendritic
erosion created by flowing water and
electric arcs exploding across a surface
can produce sinuous channels that also
resemble fluid erosion
but there are differences an electric
discharge to a solid surface electron
pathways frequently create dark spotting
or chains of craters running along the
channel floors are closed by the
presence of crater concentrations in
relation to surface channels offers a
fundamental test of the electrical
hypothesis
[Music]
[Music]
an electric experiments we also see
coronal streamers radiating
perpendicularly from the primary
discharge channel both the cratering and
the coronal discharge are keys to a new
understanding of the margins surface
[Music]
in electric arcs cut the great channels
on Mars
[Music]
Nergal Valles is some three miles or
more in width and 250 miles in length
yes it did look like a dry riverbed when
first seen by the Mariner 9 mission in
1972 but the original confidence of
planetary scientists soon gave way to
doubts bent a contradiction
a river can take many twists and turns
along its path but it's tributaries will
not look like the blunt alcoves of
Nergal Valles margin channels exhibit
the predictable features of an electric
scar rotating cylindrical arcs
sputtering along the primary discharge
path produced scaloppine of the channel
walls with sharp angular projections
that are inconsistent with fluid flow
the same process left overlapping
craters and alcoves that make no sense
in terms of familiar erosional patterns
[Music]
we see virtually identical craters
alcoves and sharply cut stubby gouges
along the needy Valles
[Music]
numerous other margin drills underscore
the same enigma and the unanswered
questions grow year by year
[Music]
planetary scientists identify depression
such as these as collapsed lava tubes
lava tubes form is flowing molten rock
cools and hardens at its surface
insulating the law of a below so it
continues to flow in a tube that
eventually empties when an empty lava
tube collapses the result will be an
entrance to a lava tube cave a good
example is Barker's cave in Australia so
a cave entrance is the first thing to
look for on Mars the second thing to
look for is a rubble field created by a
collapsing roof and a third thing to
look for is abundant outflow since the
emptying of a lava tube requires an
outflow region
but in reviewing innumerable instances
of claimed lava tube collapse on Mars we
find no cave entrance no rubble field
from a collapsed roof and no outflow the
depression stand alone with literally
nothing to support the theoretical
interpretation like any fluid lava flow
follows topographical relief always
running downhill the channel seen here
change direction randomly in apparent
disregard for topography they make
90-degree turns unrelated to surface
gradients and they also cross over each
other with no disturbance of either
these depressions cannot be collapsed
lava tubes look what are they
what you see here is not the planet Mars
it is a surface affected by a very high
voltage but micro amp current creating a
complex of gouges and craters again in
electrical terms craters and channels
are inseparable companions in responding
to the mysterious channels and
depressions on Mars many planetary
scientists thought they saw spreading
and fracturing and indeed evidence of
fracturing is present on Mars as seen
here here there are no associated
creators or creator chains and the
nature of the stresses acting on the
surface is an open question planetary
scientists think in the same terms when
considering the region of a vernest
caulis they identify the channels as
cracks or fractures but why the
concentrations of craters and crater
chains a rotating electric arc traveling
across the surface can alternately
sputter forward to produce linear chains
of creators or advance on a continuous
path to cut channels as if by a router
with uniform depth and parallel sides
a question of crater formation on rocky
planets and moons must be reopened the
impact explanation would mean it's only
necessary to count craters in order to
calculate the age of a surface but
electric discharge on a hemispheric
scale could quickly create a surface
that looks a billion years old
- those counting craters plasma
scientist dr. CJ ransom of Venus at
laboratories conducted a series of
experiments with electric arcs electric
discharge produced surface cratering
patterns closely resembling those
observed on planets and moons even the
surface darkening in central bumps or
mounds of so many craters on Mars were
present in the laboratory experiment
electric arcs can also produce cratering
patterns that could never be produced by
impact complex terracing of crater
floors and crater walls are a common
effect of a rotating electric arc or
discharged streamer across the surface
of Mars we observe countless examples of
exotic terracing impact Theory was never
able to resolve the mysteries so-called
bull's-eye craters with a central crater
inside a larger crater are surprisingly
common on Mars but this be a rare
accident that explanation is reduced to
absurdity when two such craters are seen
side-by-side in fact several bullseye
craters appear within the same region of
Mars but an ionized discharge path of
lightning does allow for subsequent
discharge along the same path the
bullseye crater is a logical extension
of the electric model and when it comes
to improbable events side by side these
two craters with central Peaks each
terminating in another crater will
certainly never be explained by impact
impacts do not create hexagonal craters
but look closely at this region of Mars
and you'll see several hexagons an
observed form taken by rotating plasma
as seen in the planet Saturn's
electrified polar hexagon in an extended
discharge systematic cratering pitting
or etching can be the norm that's why in
industrial applications electric
discharge machining can achieve
exceptionally dependable results the
microscopic pitting of electric
discharge can give a consistent depth
and a remarkably smooth surface despite
the fact that the surface is entirely
constituted of craters or pits the same
effect can be observed on seemingly
smooth surfaces in the northern
hemisphere of Mars surfaces that have
been excavated miles deep
[Music]
but look more closely with the help of
recent high-rise images and smooth
surfaces are revealed to be nothing more
than fields of small densely packed
craters
[Music]
the baffling crater field seen here like
so many others on Mars is a perfect
counterpart to an electrically machined
surface
[Music]
