approaching the Deep Impact mission of
2005 NASA educators developed a guide
for teaching young students about the
nature of comets since astronomy is an
extraordinarily complex subject the
educators aimed to engage the students
imagination the title of the instructors
guide was make a comet model and eat it
to learn about comets nature's dirty
snowballs youngsters engaged in a
hands-on exercise called the
thermodynamics and chemistry of ice
cream among the questions the children
were asked to explore what visual
observations do you make about your ice
cream comet what are you able to tell by
using your faders to feel the ice cream
comet what are you able to tell about
your comet using only your sense of
smell what are you able to tell about
your comet adding your sense of taste
what explanations do you draw about the
composition of your comet the NASA
instructors manual concludes with a
final query of the young student what is
a comet ice cube or ice cream deep
impact will help us find out the data
from Deep Impact will tell us a little
about how the comet formed blob of water
or snowball of crystals that came
together now let us all close our eyes
and do as the NASA educators have
implored our youngsters to help
enlighten a new generation about the
wonders of dirty snowballs those
primordial aggregates of Isis and dust
those freezing cold blobs that slowly
accreted billions of years ago in our
solar system's infancy let us daydream
softly of ice creams delight us savor
the cool refreshing sensation as your
tongue gently laps at that sweet and
creamy treat of course you cannot taste
or touch or smell a comet on earth but
one sense at our disposal can teach us
much about the Comets elusive nature
open your eyes and return to reality
what do you see the images on your
screen are of a dirty snowball
comparable and Composition to slowly
melting ice cream
at least that is the story that
scientists and educators have promoted
to our youngsters for roughly half a
century do you believe what you've been
taught or do you believe what you see
let us lay daydreams aside and consider
what is self evident that this cometary
nucleus possesses a brutal terrain a
complex body tortured with cliffs sharp
edges boulders and rocks let us
contemplate what we see that this rough
rocky creature was torn from a planet
carved as if by fire blasted burnt black
and expelled from the atmosphere of its
original world let us see that this
desiccated material was immersed in a
cloud of debris the ideal prediction for
its fields of rocks and stones littering
its roasted surface let us see this
gross physical testimony the scars of
lightning of the Thunderbolts of the
Gods witnessed by ancient peoples around
the world as they rained like hell fire
in interplanetary wars let us see that
the force that lights our cities and
connects the entire world is the same
force that permeates and shapes the
entire universe let us see that not all
scientists believe in snow white fairy
tales that the astonishing revelations
of the Rosetta comet mission were
explicitly predicted by proponents of
the electric universe let us assimilate
what is plain before our eyes evidence
that speaks to us across vast distances
of time and space beseeching us to lay
down our fairy tales and to finally see
