it is the planet of a thousand mysteries
the scarred terrain of Mars defies all
conventional geology dendritic Ridge
systems covered its entire surface from
the massive noctus labyrinth IC to the
walls of countless winding channels or
reels to the cliffs of giant mesas they
climb the towering scarp of olympus mons
and descend the walls of the olympus
mons caldera they run for thousands of
miles along the vast trench of Valles
Marineris dendritic Ridge complexes
appear on radically different formations
planetary scientists envision a wide
range of geological processes that work
volcanic activity erosion uplift and
expansion surface rifting or surface
collapse but none of these processes can
create the sharply cut dendritic forms
found here only one force is known to
produce these effects an electric
discharge to a dusty surface and the
process has been demonstrated in
laboratories for more than 200 years
what might it mean if the baffling
features of this planet can all be
produced in the laboratory with electric
arcs
what might it mean for the future of
science if Mars was once immersed in
electric discharge from pole to pole the
Thunderbolts project invites you to
explore the possibilities
you
