in part two of this extended interview
we continue our discussion with
thunderbolts Picture of the Day managing
editor Stephen Smith on the electrical
scarring of planets and moons we now
turn our attention to Mars as we explore
the evidence that electrical discharges
dramatically carved the Martian surface
we begin by asking the question did
excavated material from the surface of
Mars arrive on earth as Martian
meteorites Martian meteorites as their
name implies are supposedly pieces of
the planet Mars that have reached our
planet
they're usually identified by their
mineral and isotope content because
various Mars Landers have analyzed the
soils there and those analyses are used
from comparison so comparing the
analysis from say the Spirit and
Opportunity Rovers with the analysis of
meteorites found sometimes in Antarctica
they've concluded that they are actually
pieces of Mars so to discuss Martian
meteorites we have to talk first about
how they might have migrated from Mars
to earth in the last interview I
mentioned Valles Marineris
it's a Canyon on Mars that's four times
deeper than the Grand Canyon and it runs
for almost five thousand kilometres when
the Mariner space probes sent back
pictures of it the first thoughts were
that it was formed by some sort of
catastrophic flooding but a major
difficulty with that theory is that
there's no Delta or headwater region in
the canyon and there's no debris field
that might be left over from water
erosion also there's no indication of
surface accumulation of water anywhere
nearby in lakes or ponds that might have
formed because of the catalytic utt out
the canyon also the so-called
tributaries in Valles Marineris
terminate in clean cuts and there's no
sign of water flowing down into the into
them and they don't look any
you in any way like a typical drainage
formation the Mars Reconnaissance
Orbiter also saw evidence of olivine
inside an area called Ganges casma which
is one of the deepest parts of Valles
Marineris
and because olivine reacts with water
its presence seems to definitely exclude
water erosion as the cause of the canyon
so we have to ask ourselves what force
is it that can excavate over 2 million
cubic kilometers of rock and regolith
from the Martian crust and modern
geologists speculate that Valles
Marineris was formed by what they call
mass wasting meaning landslides or slow
movement of material down a steep slope
usually in the presence of water and
since Mars is thought by many planetary
scientists to once have been warm and
wet millions of years ago though that
influence still pervades their thinking
as I said in the last segment
investigators were stunned by the images
of Mars from space probes that showed it
to be more like the moon with its
craters rills and its sharp Peaks their
theories suggested that Mars should be
inactive with a surface that was
relatively stable for millions of years
nothing like the scale of Valles
Marineris was even imagined so bad then
back to the question of what did carve
up Mars like a pumpkin in the 70s Ralf
j√ºrgens
a civil engineer and a participant with
Dave and Steve Talbot in the magazine
ponse thought that electric arcs between
planetary bodies created the features we
see on Mars as well as the moon and by
extension most likely earth so here's a
quote from Jergens he said this entire
region resembles nothing so much as an
area zapped by a powerful electric arc
advancing unsteadily across the surface
occasionally splitting into and now and
then weakening so that it's traces
narrow and even degrade into lines of
disconnected craters and indeed in many
areas of Valles Marineris there are long
lines of crater chains the electric
universe physicist wal thornhill also
wrote Valles Marineris was created
within minutes by a giant electric arc
sweeping across the surface of mars rock
and soil were lifted into space and some
fell back to create the great strewn
fields of boulders first seen by the
Viking and Pathfinder Landers and walls
analysis suggests that the discharges
resembled the shape of a barred spiral
galaxy in Valles Marineris and the
listeners can read about walls theory in
more detail on his Hollow science comm
website and in particular they should
read his article called spiral galaxies
and Grand Canyon's
so like an arc welder shoots Sparks and
flux into the air when it fuses metals
material from the electric arcs that hit
Mars shot gigatons a regolith out into
space and this exceeded the planets
escape velocity this means that whatever
electric force excised Valles Marineris
probably threw huge chunks into space
some of them undoubtedly fell back to
the surface as wal mentioned but some of
them love the larger pieces most likely
entered orbit and one of my latest
picture of the day articles discusses
the moon Phobos and it's obvious
electrical scarring one of the major
objections to the idea of explosions of
that magnitude is that they would have
melted or disintegrated large pieces of
rock
however electrical acceleration doesn't
do that
just like electro magnetic linear
induction motors can cause rapid
acceleration the upward pull of electric
arcs does the same thing and many people
might be familiar with the linear
induction motors in the amusement park
ride called Superman that accelerates
the cars to 100 miles an hour in 3
seconds and without heat and the
characteristic of electricity that I
mentioned that it can cause rapid
acceleration helps to explain the
features on Phobos as I mentioned I
recently wrote that Stickney crater on
Phobos is ten kilometers wide which is
nearly the same size as Phobos itself
I've also written many previous articles
that talk about rocky bodies with
craters almost as large as they are and
I mentioned Saturn's moon test time as
an example as I pointed out the
so-called impact craters should have
blasted the objects apart but there's
really no indication visible other than
the large craters in the case of Phobos
Phobos is like 28 by 20 kilometers in
size so Stickney crater is nearly half
as large as the moon itself some
astronomers say or they claim that the
fracture lines around Stickney crater
show that there was a great shock to the
moon and that it was distorted by
whatever forms Stickney crater but when
you look closer you can see that the
striations that they're mentioning are
really chains of small craters and there
aren't any fracture lines as they call
them there aren't any cracks from a huge
shock wave passing through the moon
surrounding Stickney crater it's smooth
and rounded and there's no large blast
debris and it should be mentioned though
that Phobos itself is covered with about
a meter thick carpet of ultrafine dust
and I know I mentioned last time comet
Hartley being electrically machined and
the surface of the comet being
surrounded by a cloud of ultrafine dust
there's probably something similar to do
with Phobos during whatever electrical
event created it
since Phobos is about the same size as
some asteroids know like Mathilde or
eros or Ida and it has gigantic craters
just like they do we have to ask
ourselves what common event creates
similar structures without blowing them
apart and the only answer that I can
come up with is electricity planetary
scientists theorized that volcanoes and
flowing lava are responsible for having
shaped many of Mars most dramatic
features but does this explanation match
what is actually seen on the Martian
surface
another thing about Mars is that there
are long canyons and rills that seem to
start and stop suddenly
even though Valles Marineris has been
attributed to mass wasting or flooding
by conventional geologists the other
abrupt incisions on the surface are even
more puzzling to them and the only
explanation that they've been able to
come up with is that their lava tubes
from volcanic eruptions and lava tubes
form when volcanoes send rivers of
molten magma down their slopes and as
the lava hardens it's supposed it
supposedly forms a shell around the
flowing stream and indeed that is
because you can see that there are lava
channels around many volcanoes with
roofs over them and holes through the
roofs show that molten rock is indeed
flowing through this shell since the
shell creates a roof over the lava it
insulates it and it allows it to travel
for many kilometres and lava tubes are
found in Hawaii and other places around
the world like New Zealand or wherever
volcanic eruptions have been frequent
over the centuries we can see the
evidence for collapsed lava tubes in
Hawaii and they superficially do
resemble the structures on Mars however
one important objection that I can point
out is there's no sign of any volcanoes
associated with most of these big
trenches that are supposedly collapsed
lava tubes and another objection is the
evidence of collapse that we can see on
earth when the roof of a lava tube
collapses they're often several meters
thick of solid rock so the roof has
really nowhere else to go except into
the bottom of the lava tube so there's
big piles of fractured rock and stone
covering the floors of these tubes but
when you look at the Martian formations
the bottoms of these trenches are clean
and there's really maybe just a dusting
of Sandy ripples in there so you have to
ask well where's the roof of this
collapsed lava tube since the long
trenches and I could name a couple of
them like tractus Catina or koh protease
Catina have steep clean sides and they
have scalloped edges like I mentioned
the last time Victoria crater has these
scalloped edges so to the sides of some
of these trenches they often have
dendritic ridges going at their sides
too so I'd suggest based on the evidence
that I presented last time and some of
the things that Dave Talbot has done
about dendritic ridges that these
trenches marked areas where electric
discharges touched down and then
traveled along for some distance before
they were suddenly quenched
so CJ Rams ransom who I mentioned in the
last interview has created similar
features in his laboratory of these
trenches with clean bottoms and steep
sides and he's done it by exposing these
various materials he's formed two
electric arcs and he's either moved the
discharge electrode across the sample or
he's moved the sample under the arc and
that shows me that the lightning bolts
that H the deep furrows on Mars were
either moving through space above the
planet or the planet was rotating under
the discharge that was emitted by
whatever electrically charged object was
above its surface it's true that many
Martian trenches are near what are
conventionally called volcanoes but I
have serious reservations about that
description as well one of the most
familiar formations on Mars is probably
Olympus Mons in the northern region and
it's often called the largest volcano in
the solar system unquote because it
rises more than 27 kilometers that's
three times taller than Mount Everest
it's also almost 600 kilometers wide
across its base in comparison the
volcano on Hawaii Mauna Kea when you
measure it from the ocean floor to its
summit is a little over 10 kilometers
high so here you have a volcano
so-called on Mars that's two and a half
times higher than Mauna Kea but like I
said there are serious issues with the
description of Olympus Mons as a volcano
and particularly in the sense that it's
a place in the crust of Mars where
supposedly molten magma erupted from
beneath the surface building up a
conical structure although I should
mention in passing that volcanoes on
earth might not behave in the same way
as everyone assumes so using volcanoes
on earth to describe Olympus Mars might
be more of a hindrance than a help in
the case of Olympus Mons though the
structure is definitely anomalous first
of all
when electric arcs strike a surface they
often will stick to one spot and that
causes the surface to melt sometimes
creating bubbles or blisters and those
blisters are known as Fulgham i'ts or
lightning blisters and that terminology
I first learned from wal thornhill many
years ago when he released his cd-rom
called the electric universe
unfortunately that particular
presentation is now out of production
but walls various talks in a number of
different venues discussed nearly
everything that was found there many of
his talks are available through the
Thunderbolts website by the way but
getting back to olympus mons foga mites
are sometimes seen on lightning rods
after they've been struck their bill
shaped blisters with nearly circular
craters on top of the blister they have
steep sides and they're surrounded by
depressions or moats as I briefly
touched on in the last interview they
also rise up sharply from vertical
sidewalls and of course anyone who's
looked closely at images of Olympus Mons
can see those same distinguishing
characteristics these vertical sidewalls
surround Olympus Mons then there's a
steep upward rise in a bell shape and
multiple circular craters on top of the
of the volcano I keep referring it to
evoke as a volcano but let's call it a
Fulghum it-- which it most likely is
then again close by Olympus Mons you've
got three other gigantic so-called
volcanoes that share the same features
as Olympus Mons does the other three are
found in a straight line just to the
southeast of Olympus Mons and to me this
means that the volcanoes on Mars are
really gigantic lightning blisters and
in my last interview I stressed that
using earth geological theories to model
the rest of the solar system is
backwards thinking rather we ought to
use what we see in the solar system to
model earth geology in the case of the
huge vulgar mites on Mars
perhaps many or maybe even all volcanic
formations on earth can be traced to the
activity of electric arcs at some time
in the recent past and in that light
there's a structure in Namibia called
the bran burg Massif that ought to be
analyzed in terms of Fulghum aight
morphology because the branmer Massif is
a circular dome shaped structure it
rises more than 2500 meters and it's an
area bigger than 650 square kilometers
it's described by geologists as being
over 120 million years old and it's they
think it's a granitic intrusion that's
so supposedly punched through Earth's
crust long ago of course under 20
million years and but you know when you
look at Brandenburg Massif near it our
parallel grooves and ridges that extend
outward from it for hundreds of miles
and there are Lichtenberg figures
covering an enormous area multiple
craters with strange shapes and dunes
that seem to be frozen in place but when
you look closer you can see that the
so-called dunes are really solid rock
waves that march across the desert
they're covered by only a thin layer of
sand and parallel grooves like this are
everywhere in the solar system on Venus
which is the hottest spot in the solar
system on Enceladus which is profoundly
cold near the temperature of absolute
zero and if these patterns are found in
such different environments then we have
to search for a common explanation for
them
that has to take all that variability
into account and I mentioned Lichtenberg
figures a moment ago they're named for
George Christoph Lichtenberg and they
form when lightning bolts strike some
material on earth it can be soil or
sometimes even human tissue I've seen
images on the web of human beings that
have been struck by lightning and these
branching dict Lichtenberg figures are
burned into their flesh
and Lichtenberg figures have also been
generated artificially in blocks of
acrylic plastic by a man named Burt
Hickman who sells what he calls captured
lightning sculptures on his website also
many Lichtenberg figures have been
discovered in the south polar region of
Mars and we've referred to them in some
pictures of the day as Martian spiders
but we're not going to get into the
Martian spiders too much here today so
if the topography surrounding the bran
burg Massif and the bran burg Massif
itself exhibits details that are found
on other planets and moons then
conventional theories are going to fall
really short of the observations by
describing the birth of the bran burg
Massif as an event that emerged
gradually in the distant past
basically planetary scientists are
neglecting observational evidence and
that evidence is that the formation is
in reality a foga might of huge
proportions that might have been formed
suddenly again I know that this idea
sounds far-fetched since earth geology
has been well thought out and explained
for the last hundred years or more but I
will say though that one well-known
geologist that I know has been heavily
influenced by these concepts so much so
that he's changed his opinion about some
earth-based structures and now says he's
examining his opinions about how they
formed in light of new knowledge that
he's gained about electrical events so
this shows you that once the mind opens
to new ideas and a new way of seeing the
world is allowed to take hold things
that once seemed so settled and stable
suddenly take on a whole new aspect a
new way of seeing the world evolves this
change in thought processes is sometimes
described as a catastrophic shift in
perception by psychologists that shift
in perception was described in the title
of the last Thunderbolts conference it's
called a tipping point when you push on
a tall object it slowly moves off-center
until it reaches the point of no return
and tips over without further energy
input because gravity takes hold and
that same psychological impetus occurs
in the mind slowly new ideas begin to
build on one another until the old
mindset topples and a perfect
illustration of that it would be the
fall of the Soviet Union if you're
talking about it from the psychological
standpoint I remember hearing about
Hungary taking down their walled borders
with the West one day and then it seems
like only a couple weeks later that
lacroix lenses started the Solidarity
movement and then a couple weeks after
that we saw the East German wall come
down I realize it took longer than that
of course but it seems like once the
ball starts rolling changes become
inevitable
