the most critical test of the electric
comet came on July 4th 2005 that was
when NASA's Deep Impact probe fired an
800-pound copper projectile at the
nucleus of comet Tempel 1 cameras on the
probe recorded the event and even the
projectile itself contained a camera to
transmit data up to the moment of impact
as early as 2001 looking ahead to this
event electrical theorists Wallis
Thornhill began anticipating the
surprises in store for comet science on
the evening of July 3rd 2005 the day
before the encounter the Thunderbolts
website published the predictions of
Thornhill and his colleagues these
predictions would clearly contrast the
standard and the electric comet models
you
as the Deep Impact probe approached
temple one key NASA figures gathered in
the control room the comet was racing
toward the probe at some twenty three
thousand miles per hour when the probe
launched its copper impactor toward the
nucleus if the comet was electrically
charged how would the electronics of the
impactor respond to the electric field
through most of its journey the impacter
signal was clear but in the final
seconds the signal was indeed disrupted
this apparent electrical disturbance was
not all that Thornhill predicted he also
anticipated an advanced flash ahead of
the projectiles impact a uniquely
electrical event
this is exactly what occurred
and the advanced flash left NASA
scientists scratching their heads
NASA investigators were well aware of
the kinetics of impact explosions but
would the projectile be striking a solid
icy surface or a more loose aggregation
of snowy fluff they did not consider the
electrical energy of the comet but
Thornhill had long predicted the
explosion would be greater than any NASA
scientists envisioned
it seems that the spectacular explosion
that followed the impact was the
greatest surprise every scientist
viewing the live images expressed his
astonishment the scientists had expected
to peer into a deep hole in a cometary
dirty snowball before the Deep Impact
vehicle was too far away but the
erupting cloud of silica dust was so
thick and the explosion so sustained
that it completely obscured the local
terrain to the electrical theorists the
exploding silica cloud was a predictable
effect
fortunately the Swift satellite provided
a view of the comet explosion not just
in visible light but in ultraviolet
wavelengths which often give the best
pointers to electrical events the
ultraviolet emissions required
temperatures of over 3,000 degrees
Fahrenheit the temperatures of the blast
will explain why the initial eruption
saturated the sensors on the Deep Impact
probe calculations based on pixel
saturation indicated a minimum initial
temperature of the flash at almost 6000
degrees Fahrenheit the saturation means
the temperature could have been much
higher
the first purpose of the Deep Impact
mission was to excavate the envisioned
subsurface water ice but electrical
theorists have consistently predicted
little or no water on most comet nuclei
nothing approaching the expected levels
of water was detected in the exploding
cloud a lack or absence of volatile x'
can only mean that something is
fundamentally wrong in standard comet
theory
according to the popular model it's the
pressurized gases of volatile x' beneath
the surface that explained the
impressive velocities of cometary Jets
as a last resort in the search for water
on temple one NASA scientists hope to
identify the vents for its Jets the
vents were never found
when viewed through the lens of standard
theory some predictions of the electric
model could only appear absurd Thornhill
anticipated that the locations of the
comet Jets could actually shift as
charge redistribution occurred on the
nucleus after a significant electrical
event
confirmation of this prediction came
from the Nordic optical telescope in La
Palma Spain as released by the
observatory two images of the comet
before impact and hours later tell the
story emphatically 15 hours after the
blast new Jets appeared far from the
location of the impact itself
the Deep Impact mission promised to give
us the best images ever of a comet
nucleus on the eve of the impact the
Thunderbolts group stated the
electrically predicted surface features
in no uncertain terms
the surface of temple 1 astonished the
experts expanse of mesas and steep
vertical ridges did not belong on a
comet and the presence of craters
sparked a debate that continues today
fortunately scientists had an
opportunity for a second look at temple
one after the Stardust mission to comet
vilt
to that probe was redirected to the
object of the Deep Impact mission
Stardust was then renamed next or new
exploration of temple 1 it would give
additional views of the comet's surface
with the arrival of the next probe old
mysteries only grew more perplexing
leaving scientists to debate the
contradictions of theory even the
scaloppine of Mesa walls and nearly
vertical ridges something we've
mentioned so often in connection with
electric discharge machining was duly
noted by NASA scientists
at least 60 craters were counted though
collisions along the Comets path would
be exceedingly rare if occurring at all
and the surfaces of active comets are
rapidly eroded far too rapidly to
preserve a record of rare impacts across
geologic timescales in fact most
astronomers now reject explanation by
impact and that includes Michel Ahern
the principal investigator of the Deep
Impact mission
what then was responsible for the
pervasive cratering of the temple one
surface laboratory experiments have
shown that entire fields of craters are
readily produced by electric arcs to a
negatively charged surface nothing
observed on cometary nuclei has
contradicted the electrical
interpretation
here is the most fundamental question
one could ask about active comets is
electric arcing occurring at the surface
if so should we not see this arcing
where there is sufficient camera
resolution we have a good example in the
energetic plumes of Jupiter's moon Isle
where the sensors of the Galileo probe
were saturated by apparent electric arcs
producing blotches of white out the
second example came with the Stardust
mission and the appearance of small
saturation points on the surface of
Comet built - but with insufficient
resolution to make a definitive case for
what the electrical theorists suspected
the enigmatic whiteouts on the active
surface of temple one where everything
the electrical theorists could have
asked for and the most prominent were
placed exactly where the electric model
envisions them he roading the cliffs of
Mesa walls and extending the floors of
numerous craters and depressions and yet
these extensive blotches of whiteout
while receiving occasional comments from
the specialists have yet to provoke any
deeper curiosity as to their cause
but now with a second look at temple 1
we can contrast the surface activity of
the comet under two different
circumstances deep impact occurred just
one day before the comet reached
perihelion or its closest approach to
the Sun but the Stardust next emission
arrived 34 days after perihelion as the
comet retreated from the Sun and the
electrical activity of the Sun itself
was far below its activity at the time
of deep impact on July 2nd 2005
two-and-a-half days before deep impact
the space weather website reported a
remarkable surge in sunspot appearance a
direct indicator of surging solar
activity
an active Sun versus a quiet Sun for
temple 1 this means different levels of
proton bombardment a couple of days
after the ejected particles left the
solar surface the contrast is remarkable
the more active comet presents an
abundance of whiteouts the less active
almost none
NASA scientists originally estimated
that the temple one nucleus lost about a
third of a meter in depth with each
orbit but the electric model emphasizes
selective and focused excavation the new
look at temple 1 showed that the most
prominent Mesa cliff had been
dramatically excavated the Mesa was an
estimated 15 meters high and it had
retreated some 50 meters the most
dramatic change on temple one occurred
precisely where the pixel saturation was
the most dense the only remaining
plausible explanation for pixel
saturation on the more active comet is
electrical erosion NASA scientists also
say that existing craters were extended
between the two visits three craters
close to the dominant Mesa had been
further excavated to form a single
trench
electric arcs extend crater floors and
erode the ridges of mesas and elevated
terrain the typical signature of both is
the scalloping effect of rotating arcs
and it is no surprise to the electrical
theorists that these processes energize
a comet's Jets in fact almost all of the
Jets of Temple won when captured in its
less active phase are said to have
emanated from the erosion of a prominent
scalloped cliff
selective erosion is a trademark of
electric discharge machining
before the Deep Impact projectile was
fired at the comet scientists were
confident it would strike a dirty snowy
surface penetrating well below the
surface to excavate deep material that's
how the mission would expose the
primordial stuff of Comet creation
what would this deep crater look like of
course if the projectile struck a rock
or discharged above the surface in an
electrical event the target area might
look a lot different then the removed
material would be silicate dust and
debris but with very little penetration
beneath the surface
to facilitate the investigation after a
subsurface explosion the Deep Impact
probe targeted the space between two
well identified craters so in the return
to Temple one mission scientists knew
exactly where to look but almost nothing
could be seen and certainly there was no
resemblance to the deep crater the
scientists had envisioned to identify
the crater location the scientists
published a view of the region with a
circle of arrows around the impact site
how are we to understand the absence of
a deep crater on this question the
investigation appeared to move into
weird and theory defying science
a typical comet's gravity is perhaps one
billionth that of Earth mere walking
speed would be sufficient to escape the
nucleus altogether
how would accepted Theory allow material
exploding from the comet at thousands of
miles per hour
to return to its finite point of
departure and to refill the crater in an
electrically neutral environment it
seems that nothing less than a miracle
was required with a lot of material that
went up and came back down
a key to our understanding of the deep
impact events is water production in the
coma of an active comet abundant water
or hydroxyl in the coma of temple was
readily confirmed the NASA investigator
saw only trivial levels of water on the
surface
according to the scientific reports the
observed jet and coma activity of the
comet would require 200 times more
exposed water ice on the surface than
was actually detected this fact could
only accentuate the absence of any vents
to the previously supposed pressure
chambers beneath the surface
no theoretically acceptable cause could
be found for the energies of the comet
Jets and nothing was observed that could
account for the abundant hydroxyl or
water in the coma but this dilemma is
removed by the electric comet model the
model explains the absence of water the
energies of the Jets and the absence of
vents to subsurface chambers and the
presence of hydroxyl and water in the
coma but not as a general rule on the
surface or beneath the surface is a
prediction of the electric model
the evidence points to high-energy
electrical exchange electrically
sputtered silicates from a negatively
charged comet nucleus transacting with
the charged particles of the solar wind
water production through the
electrochemistry
of charge redistribution the paradox of
trivial surface ice on temple one then
finds a coherent explanation
the surface ice was produced
electrically in the coma meager amounts
of this water ice later drifted from the
coma to the surface condensing as a few
shallow patches of frost
it's the hydroxyl radical that gives us
the persuasive answer investigators
thought they saw an injection of water
into the coma from the nucleus several
days after the eruption of dust had
returned to normal but that conclusion
arose from an unsupported assumption
based on data from the Swift satellite
investigators from the UK and US
reported a spectacular increase in water
content within the coma but that
increase did not begin until five days
after deep impact when the normal
production of sixteen thousand tons per
day increased by at least two hundred
and fifty percent continuing for five
more days
as reported the rise in water content of
the coma all occurred with no increase
in dust content no increase in dust
that's the fact that precludes the
investigators interpretation comet
outbursts are never dust free in
electrical terms the rapid increase in
hydroxyl or water would predictably come
days after deep impact and this is why
the comet's x-ray emissions continued to
grow above the nucleus highly energetic
explicitly electrical events created a
flood of x-ray emission and the water of
the coma was the byproduct of that
electrical exchange not the cause a
reconsideration of water production in
its direct link to a comet's x-ray
production is now essential
taken as a whole the message of deep
impact is remarkably consistent but why
did the crucial findings all come as a
surprise to comet scientists and what
does it mean that these surprises were
the explicit predictions of the electric
model Deep Impact provided us with a
stunning confirmation of the electric
comet confirming as well the larger
electrical environment of the Sun and
the implications don't end there as the
dominoes fall under the vision of an
electrified heliosphere the space
sciences will be forever changed
