standard geology tells us that
incremental processes over eons of time
have shaped our planet's surface
weathering erosion and plate tectonics
are the primary processes that
geologists believe have defined our
planet's visible features as planetary
scientists have explored our own Moon
and other heavily cratered bodies they
have considered collisional impacts in
volcanism as the possible cause of the
craters leaving countless anomalies
unresolved however overwhelming evidence
suggests that other processes not
included in geology textbooks have left
their indelible Mark upon the Earth and
other
planets a growing field of scientists
and independent investigators are
exploring the geological effects of high
energy electrical discharges in a
relatively recent Epoch of planetary
instability a key figure in this field
is Michael steinbacher a professional
photographer who has studied the
geological formations in the American
southwest Michael is scheduled to speak
at the forthcoming conference EU 2015
Paths of Discovery taking place June
25th to 29th in Phoenix Arizona today
Michael offers a brief introduction and
overview of his talk where he will
present a photographic illustration of
the electric Universe catastrophist
Model A Link to Michael's YouTube
channel can be found in the description
box of this video
my talk is basically going to be on the
pestop geology model fortunately for for
all of us we have Billy Elton doing
experiments showing what happens when
you have Dusty
plasma and electromagnetic events taking
place he's making what looks like
mountains sometimes there're circular
formation sometimes they look like
galaxies at my request he did an
experiment using a Channel of water
with an electromagnetic event of anode
and a cathode on either side and he
released Dolomite and clay from
above and it did what I had hoped it
would do it prevented accumulation it
didn't erode a canyon it prevented
accumulation where the water was flowing
and in between the two anode and cathode
electrodes material seemed to accumulate
prefer ually and it seemed to be wet as
if water was being pulled up or Wicked
somehow being involved with the process
and it made something similar to the
Grand Canyon and he's repeated it and it
has scalloped edges at times so it
really looks like what you see in the
field it's very confirming I think of
the model that I'm
proposing Dolomite is is a wonderful
mineral it it has all sorts of problems
if you want to explain it having been
created on the earth in the quantities
required for what you find in the
mountains and and and associated with
oil uh it just doesn't form unless the
ocean is boiling and full of uric acid
urine which is not very
likely on the other hand NASA was
shocked when they went through the tail
of Haley's Comet and collected dust they
found 7% Dolomite and they think it's
understated they also found Limestone
they've also found everything required
to explain pretty much the entire
geologic column in Comet dust and not
just one Comet but they're all sharing
these anomalies hydrocarbons and
Dolomite Limestone and things that
really shouldn't be there things that
people thought required
water and this Dolomite seems to have
fallen from the sky as described by our
ancestors and it seems to have been at
the very end end of these catastrophic
processes because in many instances it's
the very tops of the mountain the Dolan
lights of the Alps there these beautiful
Cliffs and you have a Windward and a
leward side at the very top of the Alps
there's Dolomite all through Nevada west
of Las Vegas the tops of the mountains
and it's layered with the shell Dolomite
shell Dolomite shell as if it's being
sort of ionically I I think by twiston
berkling heart and then the other
fascinating thing about do is that it's
reported that that oil rained from the
sky for days and nights by our ancestors
again I winess
accounts and Dolomite is where most of
the oil that's been recovered prior to
fracking has come from because it's
Taurus so the oil in Saudi Arabia and
Texas and California and all over the
world prior to fracking the vast
majority except for tar Sands and things
like that has come from Dolomite
formations because of porest and if you
put a pipe in it you can suck it out as
opposed to Shell which is a solid rock
so it fits nicely with the hydrocarbons
that are available from comets according
to NASA and the Dolomite that's
available from comets and it's all laid
out in nature in the geologic column and
it's where we get our oil from for the
longest time I kept looking for
electrically excavated canyons and I
didn't really see them I was seeing what
appeared to be fluvial things that got
smaller as they went uphill and stopped
before they got to a ridge and then
started on the other side of the ridge
back down again repeating what was on
the previous side so it looks like it's
a water event and then I stumbled on
Zion Canyon which I had been to before
but looking at Google Maps I noticed
things that just weren't right and you
can see that it's completely different
than the Fluval excavations flu
drainages it's electrical and I have a
YouTube explaining all of this and then
that opens up all these other doors
because you can see what the electric
process does and how it changes the
color of the formations and then you can
use this as a marker and look all over
the place and see where electrical
removal has taken place so it took six
and a half years but finally I found
what appeared to be
electrical excavation
that stand out that really ripped much
of the Southwest at the very end of the
process you can see that all the other
layers have been deposited so that this
process creating these electrical tants
is the very end and it seems to create
molten dust which downwind seems to
create assault layers at the very top of
the formations again the very end of the
process so it took a long time but I
found electrical removal on Earth it
seems to be a a no-brainer there's just
no way that water could explain these
formations was no water available and
they go through high points they don't
stop at high points like something flui
so yeah Zion Canyon is kind of the
Rosetta Stone of electrical excavation
to the planet
Earth
[Music]
