welcome to space news from the electric
universe brought to you by the
thunderbolts project at Thunderbolts dot
info in part 1 of this presentation
physicist Eugene Baga Schaaf began his
analysis of the ongoing mysteries
surrounding the first-ever so-called
interstellar asteroid Oh wah-wah
Eugene scrutinized the rather surprising
hypothesis that the object is not
natural but rather a kind of alien
technology that hypothesis arose
primarily from Obama's peculiar
acceleration as it moved away from the
Sun but as Eugene will explain this is
certainly not the first instance that
the velocity of an object in our solar
system has puzzled astronomers only one
of several enigmas Oh mwah mwah presents
based on the limited available data
eugene continues his analysis of this
intriguing celestial traveler
so it seems that so far there is no
clear consensus on the possible sources
of Omar Moore's acceleration nor there
is a consensus on whether this object
should be considered a comet or an
asteroid or even an alien spacecraft
just to be clear I would like to draw
here a baseline a ground zero so to
speak representing the actual raw
observations to clearly show what is
inferred on top of that and to take it
with a pinch of salt by default and
actually we know really not much firstly
we saw a moving dot in the sky only a
few pixels across even as observed by
the best available telescopes multiple
observations from various facilities
during few months indicate that this is
not some kind of visual artifact but a
real celestial body the object also
demonstrated somewhat irregular but
still periodic changes in brightness the
ratio between maximal and minimal
optical energy flux being roughly equal
to 10 and the period of brightness
change being roughly 8 hours and that is
pretty much it
everything else is speculation so should
be critically evaluated and not taken as
fact especially I might add with a bit
of humor the things that would be
proposing a bit later in this video and
then the next one by the way the
analysis of the changes in brightness of
Omaha as for example is shown in the
paper the excited spin state of Omaha
could also lead to a conclusion that it
is very Oblates
rather than very oblong so it could as
well be bang cake shaped so to speak
rather than cigar shaped as it is almost
uniformly acknowledged now in the media
and even the research papers this is one
of the reasons why one should be careful
with the infamous artist's impressions
of various objects and processes that
might be depicted totally wrong
depending on the correctness of the
assumptions that they are based on in
previous videos I myself have used the
initial assumption about the probable
oblong shape yet I've clearly stated
that it is a conjecture obtained from
modeling assumptions about the albedo
etc and what is really observed is only
changes in brightness we don't really
know yet and maybe we would never know
what the actual shape of the object is
the
cake shape obviously would be somewhat
more consistent with the solar sail
scenario that was described in the
previous space news video on the topic I
should note that there was another piece
of observational data that was collected
by various facilities and that is the
spectrum of the object although with a
caveat that since those were mostly
earth-based telescopes only visible part
of the spectrum was recorded the
spectrum seems pretty dull and not too
different with respect to the spectra of
the small bodies in the solar system
some authors have suggested see four
examples paper called Omaha is hot
imaging spectroscopy in search of meteor
activity that the smoothness of Omaha
mower spectrum means that it should have
been formed in some relatively warm
conditions but then again we know that
even cometary dust contains
high-temperature silicates so that
really doesn't change anything at least
in the EU perspective by the way I'm
really baffled by the fact that none of
the available x-ray telescopes in space
have performed any observations of the
object I personally believe that if
there was some electrical activity on
the surface which is not guaranteed
given all the objects peculiarities yet
still possible then it could have been
detected in the x-ray frequency range
I'll remind the viewer that it is quite
typical for their bodies in the solar
system to demonstrate potential
differences of few hundred volts between
their surfaces or atmospheres and the
ambient solar wind around them such
potential difference was observed at
Saturn's moon Hyperion when it's at the
Cassini space probe with a stream of
electrons accelerated by a potential
difference of about 200 volts the same
negative potential of 200 to 500 volts
was observed by Rosetta space probe at
the comet 67p
and there have been detection of x-rays
from Pluto's atmosphere in the same
energy range which I've already reported
in the video called Pluto's x-rays
baffled scientists at the Thunderbolts
project YouTube channel the detection of
these x-rays accompanied by the focusing
of the solar wind ions at Pluto as if
attracted by the electric field in my
opinion seems to indicate the negative
charge of Pluto's
atmosphere with the appropriate
potential of about 300 to 600 volts
which seems entirely consistent with the
previous measurements done at other
bodies as well as modeling of the
behavior of asteroids and the moons of
Mars where it is also suggested that
even the solar wind flow itself should
cause potential differences of the order
of hundreds of volts across the surface
so it wouldn't be unexpected if Oh mwah
mwah would actually emit in the soft
x-ray range with energies of photons of
about 3 to 700 electron volts just
because of the electric discharging
between the surface and the solar wind
plasma yet given the somewhat unique
character of this body it would have
been even more interesting to see
whether that would actually be the case
unfortunately since the object cannot be
seen any more it is possible that we
will never know now I wish to dive
deeper into a hypothetical area and
discuss some of the ideas I've had in
the recent weeks while trying to figure
out the peculiar behavior of Omaha in
the light of research papers mentioned
in the previous video
first of all I should note that the
radial acceleration away from the Sun
that was supposedly observed while
tracking Omaha's position is not very
different from the inwards acceleration
of the Pioneer ten and eleven probes
widely known as the Pioneer anomaly
obviously the direction of acceleration
is the opposite but the effect is pretty
similar and there is only one order of
magnitude difference in terms of its
intensity if one uses the simple one
over R squared law and corrects for the
much farther position of pioneers at the
time of the detection of the anomaly now
the scientific community for the most
part agrees that pioneer anomaly might
be explained by the anisotropic heat
emission by the probes themselves so
supposedly they were decelerated by the
infrared photons emitted by themselves
roughly in the direction of their motion
that is away from the Sun and thus
slightly decelerated
it is quite peculiar that the
acceleration remained roughly constant
even though the heat output from the
probes radioisotope thermal
and quite significantly to be honest I
haven't found any explanation of how
this fact fits in the accepted scenario
yet I cannot claim that such an
explanation does not exist what I can
claim is that the same anomaly was also
observed at Ulysses and Galileo space
probes
although the later assessment seems to
have raised doubts about it as some
scientists believe that the accuracy of
the measurements of these probes
trajectories and velocities was not
enough to make a clear conclusion
unfortunately it is also not clear
whether pioneer anomaly was observed or
not for Cassini the two voyagers and New
Horizons probes voyagers and Cassini
periodically fired their thrusters and
changed attitude so it would definitely
hide the possible anomalous acceleration
signal and New Horizons team comments on
this subject are pretty vague and
ambiguous so I have not seen any
explicit statement about whether they
even checked for the possible pioneer
anomaly with their probe however one
presentation I saw once claimed that New
Horizons team simply did not have the
money to perform Doppler tracking of the
spacecraft
and thus no data with enough precision
was available in the first place
but anyway over the years many different
alternative explanations of the Pioneer
anomaly appeared such as for example the
one proposed by modified Newtonian
dynamics Ormonde developed by Mordecai
Milgram or the one proposed by the
modified inertia theory developed by
Mike McCulloch I would not describe
these in detail I would just note that
the anomaly itself indicates that there
might be something wrong in the way we
understand the behavior of bodies in the
outer solar system that is roughly from
the orbit of Jupiter and beyond
generally speaking perhaps our
misunderstanding of the behavior of
these probes out there is caused by the
inherent extremity of the conditions in
the appropriate areas but the degree of
removal of these probes from the
everyday experience of humankind so that
their motion can no longer be described
by the simple laws that we are quite
satisfied with looking from where we are
I would briefly touch on this subject
again in the next video but right here I
just want to say that maybe Omaha was
unusual acceleration is also caused by
the extreme trajectory it was traveling
along maybe our understanding of the
motion of celestial bodies is already
being tested at this kind of motion in
this regard I'm very interested if there
would appear some anomalous acceleration
of a parker solar probe which is going
to orbit the Sun faster than any
previous spacecraft did before who knows
maybe it would also detect some unusual
acceleration or something like that
now going a bit closer to the electric
universe interpretations there is an
interesting paper that among other
things considers a possible impact of
Lorentz force on the motion of
spacecraft it is indeed possible that
the two pioneers actually have had some
electric charge and thus the magnetic
fields in interplanetary plasma could
have altered their ocean the authors of
this paper do not think it would have a
big impact since they place the upper
limit on the charge of the Pioneer
probes on the order of 10 to the minus
seventh coulombs it's possible that they
underestimate the charge or the magnetic
field strength in the interplanetary
medium
I should also note that even the ambient
solar wind has an electric field to it
the so called motional electric field
because it is a flowing magnetized
plasma and technically might be
considered as a moving conductor in a
magnetic field of its own which would
create an appropriate electric field
through induction and it is not
impossible that such a field would also
impact the charge space probe in some
way obviously the same line of reasoning
applies to overarm or another thing that
might be of importance is a simple
electrostatic attraction or repulsion if
an object such as pioneer space probe or
omoi has some electric charge and there
is a non zero net charge of plasma
around it it would be subjected to
acceleration by electrostatic forces
usually such possibility is ignored
because it is considered that the
large-scale electric fields in plasma
are shielded by the redistribution of
charges in plasma itself the so-called
Debye screening it might be the case
that some other mechanism is responsible
for overcoming this screening one idea
that's been circulating in the U
community for quite some time is that
the cosmic plasmas including obviously
the solar wind plasma might have an
array of the so called plasma double
layers embedded into them so that on
large scales the fields might be damped
yet locally there might be observed
layers of positive and negative charges
traveling together something like a
train of capacitors following each other
one by one if you like so in my opinion
it is not impossible that these double
layers with the electric fields
associated with them is what might cause
the accelerations that we observe
aside from pioneer anomaly there is
another known but yet unexplained
phenomenon that I should mention here
and that is so-called flyby anomalies
the matter is very spacecraft have
experienced unexplained accelerations
while performing flyby maneuvers around
the earth and possibly other planets the
most recent reported case being the
apparent anomaly in Juno motion during
its closed approach to Jupiter the
additional speed gained during these
anomalous events is generally pretty
small
of the orders of millimeters or
centimeters per second
yet the precision of our measurements
allows us to detect this discrepancy and
so far there is no consensus about what
might be the reason it is not impossible
that this could also be explained by
spacecraft electric charge that
interacts with the magnetosphere of a
planet and/or with the electric fields
and plasma currents present in it after
all both Earth and Jupiter has quite
strong dipole or magnetic fields and the
studies of the flyby anomalies seem to
indicate that it is connected to the
asymmetry in the inbound and outbound
equatorial angles which might be
explained by an asymmetric interaction
with the planet's magnetic dipole during
the flyby anyway my point is that
perhaps something like that might also
be observed in case of Oh mwah mwah now
obviously for this object the
acceleration was not an event more or
less localized in time as with the flyby
anomalies but rather continuous but at
the same time one might consider all of
the heliosphere as being the domain of
solar magnetosphere and plasma currents
so it is possible that the same effect
have manifested itself as a continuous
acceleration in this case going into
even more hypothetical areas at this
point I wouldn't rule out even various
shady quasi relativistic effects such as
the Woodward effect for example a
hypothesized acceleration of bodies due
to the energy transfer this effect as
far as I know is not yet acknowledged as
experimentally proven yet it is not
impossible that it would be at some
point so perhaps it could also serve as
an explanation I have some even more
shady idea that the acceleration
outwards might be caused by some quasi
centrifugal force due to the rotation of
the Sun and thus of the plasma in the
heliosphere but that is a vague
intuition rather than a coherent theory
at this point in general it seems that
Omaha moas unusual acceleration if it
indeed has one could lead us to
reconsider many of the theories of how
bodies behave while interacting with
cosmic plasmas I believe it is an
important matter to be researched in the
electric universe
done since at the moment there is a
definite lack of explanations in the
astrophysics community or rather the
lack of consistency of these
explanations with the observations so it
is a good opportunity to propose an
alternative explanation and to improve
the EU agenda at the same time having a
new set of observations available to
refine the existing theories
[Music]
