of course since I've been involved with
the electric universe for eight more
than eight years now which seems
astonishing to me I've seen a lot of
things change I've seen a lot of people
come and a lot of people go and a lot of
people stick around I've seen ideas
develop I've seen old ideas grow into
something that was never expected I've
seen new ideas appear that seemed to
challenge other well-established
thinking in the electric universe
community and people are not afraid to
express that it all probably started
when I was seven when my father
explained to me what a Lightyear was and
that whole idea that you could calculate
distance based on time as a matter of
fact the calculation of the distance in
a Lightyear in miles was something I
used to perform over and over again I
would get the the length of the light
year 5 trillion 865 billion 656 million
miles one of the first ideas about
numbers that ever came to me all those
years ago so that sparked my interest in
almost all fields of science not just
mathematics but mostly what we would
call the Natural Sciences I was really
into hands-on experience and what I
could actually conceived through my
senses so I was given microscopes for my
birthday and telescopes and other
devices that I could use to explore the
natural world and I'm grateful even to
this day that my parents at least my
father especially was able to recognize
that interest in me and nurture it so
eventually that led me to the discovery
of Immanuel Velikovsky worlds in
collision was given to me by a botany
professor that I knew at the University
of California Riverside I used to help
him
with his experiments he was doing an
investigation into a viral cancer of the
tobacco plant and doing sections and
this and that me other so he could look
at them through an electron microscope
it was interesting being in the lab with
him and seeing an electron microscope
and and actually being able to
experience what scientific research was
all about when I was a teenager immanuel
velikovsky worlds in collision then of
course Earth an upheaval and the idea
that even the very stones themselves cry
out that you can look at various
formations and features around the world
and see that something happened to earth
that is not the long slow gradualism the
conventional geology teaches earth is
the scene of tremendous devastation it's
been carved up like a pumpkin we've got
30,000 foot mountain ranges if you
consider Mon Aloha for example that's a
35,000 foot mountain in the Pacific
Ocean twenty-nine thousand foot Mount
Everest and then you have the the
Challenger Deep at 35,000 feet below the
surface of the ocean these are amazing
structures that conventional geology
can't adequately explain things that i
would call fatal flaws and the theory
that I've detailed in several pictures
of the day as far as I'm concerned
Immanuel Velikovsky 'he's research
founded of course on people who came
before him like Ignatius Donnelly and
his concept of the great comet appearing
in the sky and virtually devastating
earth those two ideas I considered to be
breakthrough concepts in my thinking
that something other than conventional
cosmogony was at work in the solar
system and that I have not been exposed
to or had not been exposed to up until
that point so once that happened once
that door opened of course that gave me
insight into an
I early new dimension of thinking about
things like the electric son when I read
Ralph Jergens article on the electric
son in Velikovsky reconsidered published
by ponse I was amazed that thermo
nuclear theory was um was so inadequate
when it came to the Sun the corona you
know people just gloss over the problem
of the corona they had being two million
degrees hotter than the photosphere or
the surface of the Sun nothing even
still has been suggested as an adequate
explanation over time once the internet
came into things you know back in 1992
when I first got online before there
were such things as search engines I
started looking for information about
Immanuel Velikovsky because I knew that
a lot of this stuff had not been
published in print and there must be an
archive of it somewhere I thought that
with this new emerging technology of the
internet that somebody would put a
database up someplace with velikovsky
data it was until a few years later that
I discovered the velikovsky archive and
indeed wal Thornhill had a cd-rom
available I don't know if people
remember CD ROMs but he had a cd-rom
available called the electric universe
so I immediately purchased that in 1998
and began long correspondence with wall
at that point then as I had begun
writing to Dave Talbot as well as wal
thornhill and in fact the three of us
had correspondence about crater chains
on the moon and other formations that
were very anomalous as far as the solar
system was concerned in fact I think at
around that time in the late 90s the mid
to late 90s all of us were starting to
get involved in ideas about the
anomalies in the solar system and
velikovsky and what we're actually
seeing as new spacecraft were being
launched farther and farther into space
and
being with greater and greater
resolution suddenly confirmation seemed
to be everywhere
you
