[Music]
so we're talk a bit about the Earth's
electrical environment in the history of
scientific ideas there is a pattern of
how new ideas emerge when we know very
little about something we tend to think
it is very simple in the 1800s
biologists knew very little about the
cells that make up our bodies and
reading some of their papers about cells
is very interesting one of the top
naturalist of the time Haeckel claimed
with great confidence that cells are
uninteresting cells are just bags of
undifferentiated plasma they are not
worth anyone's attention and then slowly
over years we discovered what was in
cells and we learned that each cell of
our body is very complex in fact a
single cell in your body is just as
complex as your entire body that's a
truth that's very difficult for our
logical minds to comprehend but it is
true nonetheless and we are in a similar
situation with regard to the electrical
environments of planets and Suns not too
long ago the average scientist would
tell you there was not much between the
earth and the Sun I recall as a boy
being told about the vast vacuums of
empty space and it never sat well with
me that there should be nothing between
the Earth and the Sun our five senses
lead us to believe that a thing is
simply what it looks like a colony looks
like this to our eyes if our eyes could
see x-rays the flower would look more
like this
here's what the Sun looks like in
visible light now something very strange
happens when you look at the Sun only
through a single wavelength of red light
this beautiful shaggy landscape of
tendrils and clouds is slightly above
the image we were looking at just before
there's an outer skin of the Sun that we
do not see with our eyes and if
structure follows function which is
basically a natural law then we're left
wondering what function is played by
this very particularly structured part
of our Sun now our are there other skins
other layers beyond this we see the next
layer to the Sun when we look only at
the more energetic wavelengths the hot
wavelengths this is what the hot Sun
looks like very different and all this
extra activities taking place farther
out from those first two images the Sun
appears to get hotter and more energetic
as we move away from the surface
studying the Sun at different
wavelengths of light is one of the most
powerful tools we have for understanding
the physics of the Sun I will get back
to the Sun at the end of the talk for
now let us turn our attention to the
electrical environment of the earth I
will show you some pictures based upon
my attempts to understand the data but
you must keep in mind that no one has a
nice tidy picture that sums all of this
up so it is fine if after this talk you
are left with questions this talk is an
investigation of the idea that the solar
system is a giant electrical transformer
electrical transformers on earth change
the quality of electricity simple
transformers raise and lower voltage
very complicated transformers turn
Envisat invisible radio signals back
into music for our ears to hear and this
talk proposes that energies coming from
the Sun are absorbed and changed by the
earth and the other planets there were a
couple of surprises this year from two
saddle
lights that are orbiting the Earth and
measuring the electrical properties
around us the surprises came in what are
called the Van Allen belts these are
very high energy structures that
surround the earth this is a picture
looking down on the North Pole of the
earth now around the earth is a ring or
a doughnut you could imagine a very
high-energy positive particles ions and
protons and then there's a gap and then
there's a larger ring of high-energy
electrons now the recently these two
satellites that are put into orbit go
through these belts to measure the
electrical properties now one point of
contention about these structures and
space is whether or not they are
electrically neutral does this inner
ring really have more positive charges
in it a lot of people say no that
structures in space cannot have an
excess of charge for myself looking at
the data returned from these satellites
I think we see clear evidence of charge
separation inside of these belts and
I've come to realize that overall charge
neutrality is not really the point a
battery that you hold in your hand has
no overall charge on it but that's not
the point the point is we've separated
the charges in the battery so it can do
work our nervous systems maintain a
small charge separation with respect to
the rest of our bodies that carefully
managed charge separation allows you to
have thoughts and feelings and move
around all day so whether or not these
Van Allen belts are overall charge
neutral is not really so important what
is important is all the phenomena that
result from charge separation now the
jet propulsion laboratory is making all
the data from these satellites available
on their web sites someone here to do a
one-year research project simply on the
data coming back from these satellites
so getting back to the discoveries the
first two stars discovery was that the
Van Allen belts can
additional shells that appear and
disappear this picture of two rings is
what we thought completely described the
Van Allen belts around the earth then
during the first few months of
collecting data a burst of energy came
from the Sun and the belts very quickly
turned into that an additional shell had
appeared then a few days went by and
they returned to that this was a
beautiful surprise completely unexpected
what does it mean not sure do we see
behavior like this anywhere else in the
world we see something like this in the
electron orbits in atoms and molecules
this is a picture of an atom a positive
charge in the center and then clouds
fast moving negative charges around the
center if you add energy to an atom then
a second discrete shell will appear
around the atom this is the basis of the
whole world of quantum mechanics the
world of the very small changes in jumps
in steps and now we have seen the exact
same thing happens in a much larger
realm around us the Van Allen belts they
were too then some energy comes from the
Sun and they are three and it's soon
after that they're back to two again
nature it seems is quantized both at the
level of changes around atoms and
changes around planets the second
discovery was the detection of double
layers inside these large belts the
material up in the Van Allen belts is an
electrical plasma it's not a gas like we
breathe it's much finer and more
rarefied like a fire and then the plasma
electrical charges are free to move
around the charges and plasmas are very
sensitive slight changes in electric
fields can cause huge changes in how the
plasma is arranged and one common
structure in plasma is walls
double layers in which charges build up
say positive charges on one side of the
wall and then a gap and the negative
charges on the other side of the wall I
look at this sometimes as a way for
plasma to store energy if the plasma is
in an energetic environment it will form
and destroy these double layers to store
and release energy these double layers
can also travel in packs they can be
lined up one after another and be moving
through space
the satellites saw something like this
so here's the earth the magnetic field
lines of the earth going from north to
south this is the region of the outer
Van Allen belt and they saw the
satellite saw in a few seconds thousands
thousands of little double layers go
zooming past it at a very high speed
each one of the little layers being
about 30 volts but there are thousands
of them so when you add all that up it's
about a million volt difference from one
end to the other and this giant
traveling million vote waterfall seems
to be accelerating electrons up to
nearly the speed of light so a picture
in your mind coming from the Sun large
quantities of charged matter but which
are very low energies a small number of
these charges enter the Earth's
environment and are stepped up to
extremely high voltages now this is
exactly what an electrical transformer
does it takes high current and low
voltage and changes that to low current
at high voltage outside this building
there's an electrical transformer that
takes the thirty thousand volts from the
long-distance power lines and steps that
down to the hundred and ten volts we
need for our wall sockets humanity's
entire electrical infrastructure is
built upon this one idea of electrical
transformers every city on earth is
packed with thousands of a
electrical transformers it makes one
wonder to ponder that all of us are
sitting on a giant cosmological
electrical transformer we'll look at one
more part of the Earth's electrical
environment so picture is the Sun
picture the earth orbiting around the
Sun all the while the Sun is pushing out
the solar wind streams and streams of
charged particles going past the earth
the earth has its own magnetic north and
south poles and in addition to simply
orbiting around the Sun the earth is
also spinning this is the shadow side of
the earth and when we are in there we
call it night and then as our little
portion of the earth spins into the
light of the Sun we call that dawn
sunrise now when you put all of this
together you get millions of amperes of
current that are constantly streaming
down into the dawn side interacting with
the earth in ways that we do not
understand and then exiting back out on
the sunset side in a very simple way new
energy comes streaming down to all of us
at the start of every day and then at
the other end when the day is over all
the results from the day are pulled back
out and sent back to the solar system
each day the activity from plants and
animals all the killings and the
birthings and the growths and the decays
all that is somehow taken back up from
the earth each day all human activity
all that you have sought for and found
achieved and failed at the end of the
day it is pulled off and sent back to
whence it came to fulfill uses that we
cannot comprehend fascinating that the
same flow has been seen around IO which
is a moon of Jupiter IO also has million
ampere currents that come streaming
it's side of the of its side that is
turning to face Jupiter and similarly
currents being drawn off on the side of
Io that's turning away from Jupiter this
makes me think this phenomena might be
an electrical feature of all planets and
moons whenever a smaller body orbits a
larger body we might see this sort of
exchange this also will be a good topic
for someone here to take on either from
an experimental or a theoretical side
now if you're like me right about now
your head is really starting to hurt how
do we put this all together we have an
earth that looks like an atom with a
positive Center and discrete shells of
electrons surrounding it inside these
shells are megavolt cascades of
electrical double layers zooming between
north and south pole accelerating
electrons to nearly the speed of light
we have mega ampere current streaming
down on the dawn side and back out at
dusk we're not in Kansas anymore with
the earth surrounded by empty space we
can no longer think the earth in the
electrical environment is simple just
the opposite we must admit that it is
more complicated than we can think about
so how do we think better about this
when we see a part separated from the
hole we often see only a collection of
facts and if we continue to look at the
parts without understanding the hole we
usually come to wrong conclusions the
world of genetics has recently had to
admit that it had formed wrong
conclusions we used to think that DNA
would explain everything but it cannot
because DNA is part of a larger whole
and there are other parts in us that are
deciding how and when to use the
information in the DNA it takes a lot of
effort to place things correctly
together into a whole here's a drawing
of the electrical potential between the
earth and the Sun the Sun is at a higher
electrical potential than the earth how
do we know this well some people put up
a satellite with a 70 meter
boom arm to measure the electrical
properties on either side of that 70
meter distance and when the boom arm was
aligned one arm pointing towards the Sun
and the other pointing towards the earth
then they measured similar to those Van
Allen belts a steady stream of double
layers coming from the Sun going past
the earth and each one of those layers
was oriented in the same direction
always going lower potential away from
the Sun an image would be like a stream
meandering down a hillside with all
those little waves on the surface as you
fall down from rock to rock each little
fallen height represents a little bit of
available energy between the Earth and
the Sun there are a series of little
discrete voltage drops and if you assume
that the steps we see here that earth
continued all the way back to the Sun
then you get about 600 volts difference
between the earth and the Sun and nature
has yet again chosen to effect energy
differences an energy transfer through a
series of small steps there are it seems
very few Niagara Falls in nature where
the energy transition takes place in one
giant step nature appears to prefer many
small steps let us look at this again
the earth is orbiting around the Sun
downhill some seven of several hundred
volts from the Sun it's orbiting a sixty
thousand miles an hour through the solar
wind
the earth has concentric shells red and
indicating elect negative blue positive
charged particles from the Sun and the
Earth's ionosphere combined inside of
these shells these particles are
accelerated to nearly the speed of light
by million volt double layers flying
back and forth between the Earth's North
and South Poles some of that transformed
energy comes zooming back down to earth
in the North and the South Poles some of
that energy continues back to the solar
wind and then to connect to other
planets to Mars or to Jupiter
or maybe head out past the bounds of the
solar system pondering this picture it
is about the most complicated electrical
transformer one could imagine recall us
at the beginning of the talk that each
cell in your body is just as complicated
as your entire body well it's starting
to look like our solar system may be
that complicated we have focused on just
the earth in this talk remember there
are other planets each with unique
electrical environments and therefore
different transforming capabilities and
let's not even talk about comets the
solar system is a vast transforming
apparatus if we did not know that
previously it was only because we
assumed the solar system must be simple
and an uninteresting place mostly empty
space now we are starting to know more
and this little scratch of the surface
absolutely pushes our powers of
comprehension the Sun and the planets
have electrical properties no scientists
would disagree with that
the real fights begin when you start
discussing the importance of those
electrical properties as one
astrophysicist explained and asked
exasperation okay there are electrical
currents near the Sun but they're not
doing anything now you may recall the
Sun has dark spots on it sunspots about
a hundred billion amperes of current are
coming out of sunspots a single sunspot
that much current would power every home
in the United States now we live in a
very economical universe and that
hundred billion amps is not being wasted
it is doing something the earth also has
electrical properties no one would argue
with that
again the arguments come about how
important it all is and perhaps the
arguments are really about two things
one set of fights is about whether or
not there's any purpose to it all
another set of fights is about whether
or not we humans are the most important
thing in the picture
purpose is a very practical word we do
not need to get into religious fights
about it
purpose is related to function inside
your stomach there are cells whose
function it is to manufacture and
excrete acids for the practical purpose
of digesting your food inside each plant
there are many chlorophyll molecules
whose function it is to begin the
multi-step process of locking energy of
sunlight into organic matter of fruits
and vegetables in part for the practical
purpose of keeping animals like you and
me alive these are functions and
purposes that are visible to our eyes so
why looking at connections between the
Earth and the Sun do we have such a
difficult time seeing practical
purposeful function so this leads to the
second problem our tendency is to think
that we are the most important thing in
the universe if I'm the most important
thing then how could there be a purpose
that is bigger than me it is similar to
the difficulty of accepting that the
earth is not the center of the universe
we are ok thinking that everything
revolves around us but we get upset if
someone tells us that we are orbiting
around something so if someone suggests
that between the Sun and the earth there
are large scale processes of
transformation in which we humans appear
to play only a very small part
well that is insulting to our exalted
opinion of ourselves studying these
larger connections studying how the
earth digests and transforms solar
energies might be insulting to me
because these are functions that I serve
those functions do not serve me but if
we can overcome our self-importance we
are poised now to understand the Earth's
electrical environment in a way that
will relate the part to the whole and
seeing the part in relation to the whole
is one definition of the word meaning so
we are exploring a world of new meaning
and that is very exciting thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
